Gardeners can choose from many types of beans, the most common of which are described below. Except for the soybean (from eastern Asia) and the fava bean (from the Mediterranean region), beans are New World plants belonging to the genus Phaseolus. Most are frost-sensitive heat lovers and are easy to grow from seed. Bean flowers are edible.For information on black-eyed peas and other popular Southern peas, see Southern Pea.Some types are particularly delicious when harvested at the green shelling stage and cooked like green limas. These include the flageolet bean (a French favorite) and 'French Horticultural Bean', also known as 'October Bean'. Heirloom selections such as 'Aztec Dwarf White', 'Mitla White', and 'New Mexico Appaloosa' were grown by Native Americans of the Southwest and are very well adapted to that region.Fava beans require different care than other types described here. In cold-winter areas, plant them as early in spring as soil can be worked; in mild climates, plant in fall for harvest in late winter or early spring. Beans mature in 120 to 150 days. Space rows 12 feet apart. Sow seeds 1 inches deep, 45 inches apart; thin to 810 inches apart. Plants produce busy growth to 24 feet high.Flowers are followed by flattened, very dark green pods that are edible and tasty when young but toughen as they reach full size. Beans from older pods can be shelled and cooked like limas. Grow as you would snap beans (see below).Pods are ready in 50 to 70 days, depending on selection. Pick every 3 to 5 days; if pods mature, plants will stop bearing.Soybeans grow well in the warm, humid climates of the South and Midwest, forming a bush about the size of a lima bean bush. Treat the seeds with soybean inoculant prior to planting; then plant them 1 inches deep, 46 inches apart, in rows spaced 2 feet apart. Harvest when the seeds have reached full size but the pods are still green. Before shelling, pour boiling water over the pods to soften them. 'Butterbean' and 'Shironomai' are best eaten fresh, either raw or cooked; 'Envy' is good fresh or dried.