Native to many tropical and subtropical regions worldwide. Begonias are grown for their colorful blooms and textured, multicolored foliage. Outdoors, most grow best in containers in filtered shade. In the ground, they need rich, fast-draining soil; consistent but light feeding; and enough water to keep soil moist but not soggy. Most thrive as indoor plants, in greenhouse, or under a lath. Almost all require at least moderate humidity. (In dry-summer areas or indoors during winter, set pots in saucers filled with wet pebbles.) Most begonias are easy to propagate from leaf, stem, or rhizome cuttings.Of the many hundreds of species and selections, relatively few are sold widely.Begonia enthusiasts group or classify the different kinds generally by growth habit, which coincidentally groups them by their care needs.Cane-type begonias have multiple stems, some reaching 5 feet or more under the right conditions. Most bear profuse, large clusters of white, pink, orange, or red flowers from early spring through autumn. Some are everblooming. Among the many available selections are 'Bubbles', with spotted foliage and pink flowers with an apple-blossom fragrance; 'Honeysuckle', with plain green foliage and fragrant pink flowers; 'Irene Nuss', with dark red-and-green leaves and huge, drooping clusters of coral-pink flowers; and 'Orange Rubra', with medium green leaves, sometimes spotted with silver, and bright orange flowers.When roots fill 4 inches pots, plants can be moved to larger containers or planted in the ground. Position plants where they will get plenty of light, some sun, and no wind. They may require staking. Protect them from heavy frosts. Old canes that have grown barren should be pruned to two leaf joints in early spring to stimulate new growth.Give rex begonias bright light through a window, and water only when top inch of soil is dry. They also need high humidity (at least 50 percent) to do their best. In dry climates or indoors in winter, provide moisture in the air by misting plants with a spray bottle, placing pots on wet pebbles in a tray, or keeping plants in a greenhouse. When the rhizome grows too far past edge of pot for your taste, either repot into slightly larger container or cut off rhizome end inside pot edge. Old rhizome will branch and grow new leaves. Make rhizome cuttings of the piece you remove and root in mixture of half peat moss, half perlite.Outstanding examples include fern-leaf begonia (Begonia foliosa), with inch-long leaves packed tightly on a twiggy plant for a fernlike look. Its long, drooping stems (to 3 feet.) hold small white flowers nearly year-round in mild weather, or red shades. Fuchsia begonia (sold as Begonia fuchsioides or Begonia foliosa miniata) has delicate stems to 2 feet tall, with dangling rose-pink to rose-red flowers that resemble fuchsias. The sturdy, sun- and wind-tolerant 'Richmondensis' can reach 2 feet tall and 3 feet wide, with arching red stems and shiny, deep green leaves with red undersides. Its vivid pink-to-crimson or white flowers develop from darker buds nearly year-round.Care consists of repotting into larger containers as the plants outgrow their pots. Some shrublike begonias can get very largeas tall as 8 feet They require ample moisture, but let soil begin to dry on surface between waterings. Prune to shape; pinch tips to encourage branching.Examples include hybrid 'Potpourri', with strongly scented deep pink flowers, and one of its parents, Begonia solananthera, with glossy, light green leaves and fragrant white flowers with red centers. Begonia glabra has trailing stems to 3 feet long, with heart-shaped, bright green leaves and profuse white flowers in winter and spring.Strains are sold as hanging or upright. The former bloom more profusely; the latter have larger flowers. Colors are white, red, pink, yellow, and peach; shapes are frilly (carnation), formal double (camellia), and tight-centered (rose). Some flower forms have petal edges in contrasting colors (picotee). Popular strains are Double Trumpet (improved rose form), Prima Donna (improved camellia form), and Hanging Sensation (camellia form). On Top series (camellia form) stands up well to high heat and humidity.Grow tuberous begonias in filtered shade, such as under lath or in the open with eastern exposure. Tuberous begonias are best in the Upper South and Middle South (USDA 6-7); not suited to areas of extreme heat. In autumn, when leaves begin to yellow and wilt, reduce watering. When stems have fallen off the plants, lift tubers and shake off dirt; then dry tubers in sun for 3 days and store in a cool, dry place, such as a garage, until spring. When little pink growth buds appear, plant the tubers once again. You can also buy tubers from garden centers in spring.Plants in the Big series (hybrids between wax and angel-wing begonias, sold as Begonia x benariensis) are vigorous, bushy, heavy-blooming plants to 20 inches tall and wide, with flowers up to 212 inches across. Combinations include red flower with green leaf, red with bronze leaf, and rose with bronze leaf. The Whopper series is even larger, to 36 inches tall and wide, with blooms up to 3 inches across. Available in red with green leaf, red with bronze leaf, and rose with green leaf.