Native to eastern North America, blueberries thrive in conditions that suit rhododendrons and azaleas, to which they are related. Most blueberries grown for fruit are also handsome plants for hedges or shrub bordersand they grow well in containers. Dark green or blue-green leaves to 3 inches long change to red, orange, or yellow combinations in autumn. Spring flowers are small, white or pinkish, and urn shaped. Summer fruit is very decorative, not to mention delicious. Set plants about 3 feet apart for an informal hedge; as individual shrubs, space Northern and Southern highbush 4 feet apart and rabbiteye 6 feet apart. Grow at least two different selections for better pollination, resulting in larger berries and bigger yields per plant. For a long harvest season, choose types that ripen at different times. Full sun is essential for the sweetest berries. Those grown in partial sun may be tart.Rabbiteye and Southern highbush blueberries take extended heat better than Northern highbush kinds. Choose the type best suited to your region.The following are some of the major types of blueberries grown. (For ornamental relatives, see Vaccinium.) Selections of Vaccinium corymbosum, these blueberries dislike mild winters and extended summer heat, so they are recommended primarily for the Upper and Middle South (USDA 6-7). Most grow upright to 6 feet or more; a few are rather spreading and top out at under 5 feet Most ripen their berries between June and August. These relatively new selections are hybrids of Vaccinium corymbosum, Vaccinium ashei, and Vaccinium darrowi. They combine the Northern highbush fruit quality with the rabbiteye tolerance for heat and mild winters, and they ripen up to a month earlier than rabbiteye blueberries do. They generally can be grown in the Middle, Lower, and Coastal South (USDA 7-9) and have performed well in southern Georgia and the Florida Panhandle. Some new low-chill selections released by the University of Florida do well as far south as central Florida. Most reach 46 feet tall. Form varies from upright to spreading. Recommended selections include the following. Zones MS, LS, CS; USDA 7-9. Like Southern highbush blueberries, these selections of the Southeast native Vaccinium ashei are adapted to hot, humid summers and mild winters. They are often taller and wider than highbush plants and ripen their large, light blue berries from May into August, depending on location and selection. They're easier to establish and maintain than Southern highbush in most areas where both can be grown. Can be grown as far south as northern Florida. Foliage has good red fall color. The following list includes some of the most flavorful selections.