The South is the heart of camellia country. Indeed, common camellia (Camellia japonica) is Alabama's state flower. Although it seems these beautiful plants must have been born here, in truth they hail from eastern and southern Asia. More than 3,000 named kinds of camellias exist, in a remarkable range of colors, forms, and sizes; they are not usually browsed by deer.If you live in the Upper or Tropical South and have problems growing camellias, take heart: you can now enjoy hybrids that flourish in the extremes of weather found in both regions. See Hardy hybrids (page 213).The following pages offer a brief discussion of camellias' cultural requirements and describe some lesser-known species, as well as old favorites and new selections. The plant descriptions also include cultural needs unique to individual species and selections.The following list describes japonica selections that are favorites among Southern gardeners. Included here are a number of old standbys whose beauty belies their age. Some of them are among the oldest camellias still in commerce, having been brought to Europe and the U.S. from China and Japan in the 19th century or even earlier (these venerable camellias are noted by date of introduction in the text).Those described as hardy will survive temperatures as low as 05F. Most camellias get flambed in the Tropical South, but the following heat-tolerant japonicas perform well as far south as Fort Myers and West Palm Beach in Florida: 'Alba Plena', 'Debutante', 'Gigantea', 'Lady Clare', 'Mathotiana', and 'Professor Charles S. Sargent'. You can even try them in Miami, though you'll have to grow them in pots because of the alkaline soil there.The list specifies season of bloom as early, midseason, or late. In the Coastal South, early is November and December; midseason is January and February; late is March. In the Lower South, early is December and January; midseason is February and March; late is March and April. In the Middle South, early is February; midseason is March and April; late is April and May. In the Upper South, early is March; midseason is April; late is May. Flower size is also noted for each selection. Very large blooms are over 5 inches wide; large, 45 inches.; medium-large, 3124 inches.; medium, 3312 inches.; small, 2123 inches.; and miniature, 212 inches or less. Kramers Supreme     Plants differ somewhat according to selection, but gen- erally speaking they are rather gaunt, open shrubs that eventually become trees of considerable sizepossibly 3550 feet tall. In gardens, consider them 10 feet- tall shrubs, 8 feet wide. Leaves are also variable but tend to be dull green, leathery, and strongly net veined.Culture is similar to that of other camellias, except that these plants seem intolerant of heavy pruning. This, with their natural gawkiness and size, makes them difficult to place in the garden. They are at their best in light shade of old oaks, where they should stand alone with plenty of room to develop. They look good in containers while young but are not handsome there out of bloom. Develop better form and heavier foliage in open ground. These camellias are less hardy than Camellia japonica (not recommended for the Upper or Middle South). In Lower South, grow in containers so you can move them into winter protection, or plant beneath an overhang or near a wall.Best-known kinds have large (4- to 6 inches.) semidouble flowers with deeply fluted and curled inner petals. These inner petals give great depth to the flower. All bloom from late winter to early spring. The following are the best choices for garden use. Established sasanqua camellias tolerate drought, but those growing in full sun need more water. They make excellent espaliers, tall screens, informal hedges, and bonsai specimens, as they accept frequent pruning. Upright selections can be pruned into standards (single trunks). Sasanquas are not as hardy to cold as common camellias; gardeners in the Upper South should plant them in spots protected from winter wind and sun or grow them in cool greenhouses.October Magic series. Bred in Fairhope, Alabama, this group includes sturdy landscape plants that offer a variety of colors and plant forms. 'Bride' blooms white, grows 4-6 feet tall and wide; 'Dawn' blooms doubled in shades of pale pink, growing into a conical form 4-6 feet tall and 3-4 feet wide; 'Inspiration' blooms white with a magenta edge, grows upright 6-8 feet tall and 4-5 feet wide; 'Orchid' blooms with a pink blush and grows 3-5 feet tall and wide; 'Rose' blooms vivid pink and grows remarkably upright at 6-8 feet tall and 3-4 feet wide; 'Ruby' blooms doubled and red, growing 4-5 feet tall and wide; 'Snow' blooms fully doubled white and grows 5-7 feet tall wide.   