There's nothing timid about cannas. Native to the southeastern region of the U.S. as well as to subtropical and tropical parts of Central and South America, they loudly proclaim their presence with large, bold leaves and wildly colorful flowers.In summer and fall, flower stalks (typically 36 feet tall) bear blossoms to 3 inches across, in shades of red, orange, yellow, salmon, coral, pink, and cream; both solids and bicolors are available. Lance-shaped, 1- to 4 feet-long leaves resemble banana foliage. Green and bronze are the typical leaf colors, but many newer selections feature shockingly bright striped and variegated foliage in all sorts of riotous combinations. Deep-colored foliage typically fades somewhat in hot sun.Cannas are most effective when planted as masses of a single color against a solid background. They grow best with full sun and high heat, forming lush, spreading colonies. Their leaves combine well with finer-textured foliage, such as that of daylilies (Hemerocallis) and lantana. Use taller kinds at the back of borders; compact sorts make good container plants.Choose a spot with plenty of heat and bright sunshine. Plant rhizomes in spring, after the danger of frost is past. Set them 24 inches deep and 12 feet apart. Cannas like lots of moisture (they'll even grow in standing water), but the soil doesn't need to be boggy, just moist. They're heavy feeders and prefer rich soil containing lots of organic matter, such as composted manure and chopped leaves. If you see ragged, stunted foliage and canna leaf roller (see below) is not the problem, the plants are hungry; give them weekly feedings of water-soluble 20-20-20 fertilizer until they perk up. Cut each flower stalk to the ground after it finishes blooming; new stalks will appear and continue to grow into early fall. In the Lower, Coastal, and Tropical South, cannas can overwinter in the ground; elsewhere, lift the rhizomes in fall and store over winter. Divide clumps every 3 or 4 years, making sure each piece of rhizome includes a bud or eye.Canna leaf roller is a common pest, mainly attacking hybrids. This caterpillar rolls up the leaves and feeds inside them; infested foliage looks ragged and is full of holes. Sanitation is the best solution. Cut off and destroy infested leaves as soon as you notice them and, in late fall, cut all plants to the ground and destroy all leaves and stems to prevent the pest from overwintering.Unfortunately, an incurable viral disease has spread rapidly in recent years to infect many cannas worldwide. Plants are not killed outright, but their leaves are seriously disfigured by brown edges and dead areas. Early signs include yellow streaks and tiny, sandlike spots; flowers may also show viral streaking. Immediately dig and destroy infected plants. Buy replacement rhizomes only from sources you trust to have disease-free stock. Or buy plants in leaf, making sure there are no signs of virus on your chosen cannaor any others in the nursery.