If this entry seems like it has a few friends missing, blame the taxonomists. Many species formerly included under Chrysanthemum have been assigned new names and are noted below.It's easy to grow florists' chrysanthemums, not so easy to grow prize-winning ones. The latter need more water, feeding, pinching, pruning, grooming, and pest control than most perennials (see care box above). But if you're not planning on competing in the local flower show, choose from the following old-fashioned florists' chrysanthemumsall longtime border favorites that have survived at old homesites without a gardener in sight. Most have an open, casual look and bloom later than their modern counterparts. Try the following: 'Cathy's Rust', 23 feet., rich rusty red; 'Clara Curtis' ('Country Girl'), 23 feet., rosy pink; 'Ryan's Pink', 1122 feet., soft pink; 'Emperor of China', to 4 feet., silvery rose-pink flowers and red-flushed foliage; 'Hillside Sheffield' ('Sheffield Pink'), 212 3 feet., clear pink; 'Mrs. Hathaway', 212 feet., yellow; 'Single Apricot Korean', 23 feet., pale apricot; 'Venus', 23 feet., pale pink to white; and 'Virginia's Sunshine', 2 feet., soft yellow flowers as late as November.Flower forms. Following are flower forms as designated by chrysanthemum hobbyists.Anemone. One or more rows of rays with large raised center disk or cushion. Center disk may be same color as rays or different.Brush. Narrow, rolled rays give brush or soft cactus dahlia effect.Decorative. Long, broad rays overlap like shingles to form a full flower.Incurve. Big double flowers with broad rays curving upward and inward.Irregular incurve. Like above, but with looser, more softly  curving rays.Laciniated. Fully double, with rays fringed and cut at tips in carnation effect.Pompon. Globular, neat, compact flowers with flat, fluted, or quilled rays. Usually small, they can reach 5 inches if buds are thinned to one or two per cluster.Quill. Long, narrow, rolled rays; like spider but less droopy.Reflex. Big double flowers with rays that curl in, out, and sideways, creating a shaggy effect.Semidouble. Somewhat like single or daisy, but with two, three, or four rows of rays around a yellow center.Single or daisy. Single row of rays around a yellow center. May be large or small, with broad or narrow rays.Spider. Long, curling, tubular rays ending in fishhook curved tips.Spoon. Tubular rays flatten at tip to make little disks, sometimes in colors that contrast with body of flower.