Citrus plants offer year-round attractive form and glossy deep green foliage. They also produce fragrant flowers and brightly colored, decorative fruit in season. If you want quality fruit, your choice of plants will largely depend on the amount of winter cold in your area.Other factors affecting a tree's cold tolerance include preconditioning to cold (it will have more endurance if exposed to cold slowly and if first freeze comes late), type of rootstock, and location in garden (planting on the south side of the house is preferred). Prolonged exposure to freezing weather is more damaging than a brief plunge in temperature. All citrus fruit is damaged at several degrees below freezing, so if you live in a freeze-prone area, choose early-ripening types.Tree size depends on the category of citrus and on the selection within that category. Standard trees (the norm in Florida, Texas, and along the Gulf Coast) grow full sizetypically 2030 feet tall and wide. Dwarf trees are grafted onto a rootstock that reduces the size of the tree but not that of the fruit; they are sold through mail-order suppliers (these cannot ship to commercial citrus-producing states) and at some nurseries in Florida.Blood orange. These are characterized by red pigmentation in flesh, juice, and (to a lesser degree) rind. Flavor has raspberry overtones. Need chilly nights during ripening. Main kinds grown are 'Moro', 'Sanguinelli', and 'Tarocco'.Satsuma. Group of mandarins with mild, sweet fruit that ripens early (beginning in fall). Succeeds in areas too cold for most citrus; mature trees can withstand 15F. Ripe fruit deteriorates quickly on tree but keeps well in cool storage. Selections include 'Arctic Frost', 'Brown's Select', 'Dobashi Beni', 'Kimbrough', 'Okitsu Wase', and 'Owari'. Does well in South Texas, Gulf Coast, north Florida. 'Miho' and 'Seto' are large-fruited, good-tasting selections for Texas.Other mandarin hybrids include the following.Australian finger lime. This Australian native bears oblong fruit filled with tart, cavierlike juice capsules that burst out of the cut rind when fully ripe. Fruit turns blackish and begins to drop as mature. Wiry, small-leafed tree with nasty thorns (wear gloves when picking). Use the capsules to flavor appetizers, drinks, salads and grilled fish.Limequat. These hybrids of 'Mexican' lime and kumquat are more cold tolerant and need less heat than their lime parent. Good lime substitutes; edible rind like kumquat parent. Some fruit all year, but main crop comes from fall to spring. 'Eustis' bears fruit shaped like a big olive. 'Tavares' has elongated oval fruit on a more compact, better-looking plant than 'Eustis'.Orangequat. Most commonly grown is 'Nippon', a cross between 'Meiwa' kumquat and satsuma mandarin. It is cold tolerant and has a fairly low heat requirement. Small, round, deep orange fruit with sweet, spongy rind and slightly acidic flesh. Sweeter than kumquat when eaten whole. Ripens winter and spring, but holds on the tree for months.Other kumquat hybrids occasionally available include pear-shaped 'Indio' mandarinquat and 'Lemondrop' lemonquat. Both are very attractive trees that load up with fruit.Citrange. Hybrid between sweet orange and hardy orange. To 1520 feet tall and wide. 'Morton' has fruit like slightly tart sweet orange. 'US-119' is newer and sweeter. Ripens late fall. Hardy to 510F.Hardy orange. See Poncirus trifoliata, page 519.