The most familiar clematis species are deciduous vines that clamber into trees and over fences and arbors; exceptions include the evergreen Clematis armandii and a few interesting freestanding or sprawling perennials. Flowers are attractive in all kinds, spec- tacular in many. The clustered true flowers are tiny and incon- spicuous; the showy part consists of petal-like sepals that surround them. Blossoms of most are followed by fluffy clusters of seeds with tails, often quite effective in flower arrangements. Leaves of vining kinds are dark green, usually divided into leaflets; leafstalks twist and curl to hold plant to its support.Leaves burn badly at tips in areas where soil or water contains excess salts. Train along substantial frames such as sturdy fence tops or roof gables; or allow to climb tall trees. Makes privacy screen if not allowed to become bare at base. Slow to start but races when established. Needs relentless pruning after flowering to prevent tangling and buildup of dead thatch on inner parts of vine. Keep and tie up stems you want; cut out all others. Frequent pinching will hold foliage to eye level.White 'Henryi' is the standard. 'Huldine', 'Hyde Hall', 'Jackmanii Alba', 'Marie Boisselot', and 'Snow Queen' are also excellent choices.Pink Look for 'Caroline' (pale pink sepals marked with dark pink), 'Comtesse de Bouchard' (bright mauve-pink), 'Dr. Ruppel' (deep pink bands down center of petals), 'Hagley Hybrid' (mauve-pink), 'Kakio' (also known as 'Pink Champagne', with vivid pink sepals and a pale central band), and 'Proteus' (mauve-pink double flowers). Where summers are hot, plant in bright shade to prevent the soft colors from fading.Red Great choices include vivid magenta 'Ernest Markham', deep red 'Niobe', velvety crimson 'Rouge Cardinal', carmine-red 'Ville de Lyon', and deep maroon 'Warsaw Nike' ('Warszawska Nike').Purple The classic 'Jackmanii', with velvety, dark purple sepals, remains the most popular; 'Jackmanii Superba' has larger flowers with wider petals. Other fine choices include rich dark purple 'Aotearoa'; deep blue-violet 'Daniel Deronda'; velvety, dark violet 'Gipsy Queen'; rosy purple 'Richard Pennell'; purple-blue 'The President'; and rosy mauve 'Viola'.Blue Sky blue 'Ramona' is deservedly popular. Other selections include 'General Sikorski' (dark lavender), 'H. F. Young' (periwinkle blue, tinged with mauve), 'Ken Donson' (deep lavender-blue), 'Will Goodwin' (lavender-blue, yellow stamens), and 'William Kennett' (lilac-blue).Bicolor Choices include 'Asao' (deep rosy pink sepals with a pale pink central bar), 'Barbara Jackman' (lavender with vivid magenta bar), 'Charissima' (cerise-pink with deep pink bar), 'Danielle' ('Vancouver Danielle', violet-blue with carmine bar), 'Kilian Donahue' (opens pink with red bar, then fades to lavender), the ever-popular 'Nelly Moser' (purplish pink with reddish bar), 'Piilu' ('Little Duckling', pastel pink with raspberry bar), 'Prince Philip' (purple blue with magenta bands), and 'Starry Nights' ('Vancouver Starry Nights', 8 inches fuchsia flowers with reddish center bar). In hot-summer areas, plant these selections in bright shade to prevent fading.Double Fully double, roselike blooms in early summer on old wood are usually followed later by single or semidouble flowers on new wood. Choice selections include silvery blue 'Belle of Woking', lavender-blue 'Blue Light' ('Vanso Blue') and 'Multi Blue', and white 'Duchess of Edinburgh'. 'Josephine' has unusual flowers of mauve-pink with a dark blue central stripe.