Coleus hybrids were all the rage when they were first introduced into Europe from Java in the 1700sand their popularity has remained high. The dizzying array of electrifying colors and foliage shapes enthralled the Victorians, and more than 100 years later, these seed-grown, shade-loving plants are still the most widely sold types. Useful for adding color to beds, in window boxes, and in pots used indoors or out. They need constantly moist, fertile, well-drained soil and should be fed every other week from spring to fall with a general-purpose, water-soluble fertilizer. Pinch out flower spikes as soon as they appear (they are not attractive, and, if allowed to develop, they'll cause plants to look leggy and untidy).Don't plant too early in springall coleus hate the cold. They're winter-hardy only in south Florida and south Texas. (Cuttings root quickly in water, though, so gardeners in cold-winter areas can save prized selections from year to year.) Large-leafed strains such as Giant Exhibition (1215 inches tall and wide) and Kong (1822 inches tall and wide) have leaves 38 inches long. Dwarf strains, such as Fairway, Carefree, and Wizard, grow 812 inches tall and wide, with 1- to 112 inches leaves.Types that tolerate more sun, collectively referred to as sun coleus, are popular and versatile. As their name implies, these plants (which are propagated by cuttings rather than from seed) thrive in sun or light shade. They're tougher, larger, more vigorous, and tidier than seed-grown types, and they offer an incredible array of growth habits, colors, and leaf shapes. They range from tiny-leafed ground-cover types to large-foliaged sorts with the size and form of small shrubs. They also bloom sparsely, which is good since the flowers aren't pretty. The following listing describes just a few of the hundreds of selections; you will find them in mail-order nursery catalogs and, increasingly, in garden and home centers. With the exception of their light requirements, care for them as you would for seed-grown coleus. They grow about as wide as tall, except as noted.