These sun-loving perennials form large clumps of long-stemmed, very showy flowers with drooping to horizontal rays and a beehive- like central cone. Bloom over a long period in summer and may continue sporadically until frost; deadheading prolongs bloom. May start blooming in spring in mild-winter climates. If left in place, the bristly seed heads hang on into winter; finches like the seeds. To make coneflowers last, be sure to plant where drainage  is good. Plants should be well established going into winter, preferably planted in spring.Use on outskirts of garden or in wide borders with other robust perennials such as Shasta daisy (Leucanthemum x superbum), sunflower (Helianthus), Michaelmas daisy (Symphyotrichum novi-belgii). Seldom bothered by deer.Many fine selections are available. 'Coconut Lime' has a double flower, with a single row of large white petals surrounding a tuft of smaller light green petals around the cone. Grows to 23 feet high. 'Doubledecker' ('Doppelganger'), another 2-footer, has something extra: a second set of pink petals emerging from the top of the cone. 'Fragrant Angel' grows  2212 feet high with sweetly scented white flowers. 'Kim's Knee High' grows 1122 feet high and has clear pink flowers. 'Magnus' grows 34 feet tall and has deep purplish pink, orange-centered flowers to 7 inches wide. 'Pink Poodle' produces fully double pink flowers that resemble zinnias. 'Rubinstern' ('Ruby Star') grows 23 feet high with carmine-red, nondrooping rays. Both 'White Lustre' (212 feet high) and 'White Swan' (1122 feet high) have white rays and orange-yellow cones. 'PowWow Wildberry' grows 112 -2 feet tall with pink-purple flowers that bloom heavily the first year.Coneflowers generally do not need staking. They perform well in summer heat and tolerate drought. Clumps spread slowly, become crowded after 3 or 4 years. Fleshy rootstocks can be difficult to separate; divide carefully, making sure that each division has a shoot and roots. Plantings can also be increased by taking root cuttings, seeding, or transplanting self-sown seedlings.