Nothing beats the taste of sweet corn picked fresh from the garden. Trouble is, corn takes considerable space to produce a decent crop, so it's better suited to large country gardens than to small suburban plots. Another potential drawback is that once sweet corn is picked, its sugar changes to starch nearly as fast as you can run the ears inside to a pot of boiling water. Still, many folks yearn for traditional kinds of sweet corn, such as 'Early Sunglow' (yellow, 62 days from planting to harvest), 'Golden Queen' (yellow, 92 days), 'Merit' (yellow, 80 days), and the all-time favorite 'Silver Queen' (white, 92 days). For information on new hybrids that stay sweet much longer after they're picked, see Improved sweet corn (below).The second class, known as supersweet corn, contains twice as much sugar as regular sweet corn. It's sometimes called sh2 corn, because the gene responsible for the added sweetness also causes dry kernels to look shrunken. Supersweet corn stays sweet for days after picking, as long as you refrigerate it promptly. Recommended selections include 'How Sweet It Is' (white, 87 days), 'Honey 'N' Pearl' (bicolor, 76 days), 'Early Xtra-Sweet' (yellow, 71 days), 'Illini Xtra-Sweet' (yellow, 85 days), 'Florida Staysweet' (yellow, 87 days), and 'Summer Sweet 7210' (yellow, 78 days).An increasing number of synergistic (sy) varieties are also sold; they blend sugar-enhanced and supersweet genes. 'Honey Select' and the bicolored 'Frisky' and 'Montauk' selections are examples.It's perfectly fine to plant sugary enhanced types near regular sweet cornbut don't let supersweet types cross-pollinate with other sweet corn (either regular or sugary enhanced), or the kernels of both will be tough and starchy. Isolate supersweets from other types either by distance (at least 200 feet away) or by time (stagger plantings so that different types don't tassel at the same time).Strawberry popcorn, grown either for its ornamental value or for popping, has stubby, fat, strawberrylike ears packed with red kernels. Don't plant popcorn near sweet corn; pollen of one kind can affect characteristics of another.