Most  planted today are selections of Lagerstroemia indica or hybrids between this species and Lagerstroemia faurei. New selections pop up all the time. One thing we've learned over the past two decades is that the mature size of many selections, particularly those named for tribes of Native Americans, such as 'Natchez,' grow bigger than first advertised. When planted in small yards or near the house, they may quickly outgrow their welcome, resulting in a winter-spring pruning ritual known as crepe murder, in which innocent trees are chopped back into ugly, knuckled trunks.Crepe myrtle trunks are too pretty to cut into ugly stubs, just because your neighbors do. This ruins the natural form and encourages the growth of spindly, whiplike branches that are too weak to hold up the flowers. To reduce a crepe myrtle's height, use hand pruners or loppers to shorten the topmost branches by 2-3 feet in late winter, always cutting back to a side branch or bud. For branches more than 2 inches thick, always cut back to the crotch or trunk. Don't leave big, ugly stubs.Fortunately, many smaller selections don't get too big and need little, if any, pruning. Mature size is so important that our revised chart (pages 397399) now groups popular selections into dwarf (25 feet tall), short (610 feet tall) medium (1120 feet tall), and tall (2150 feet.) categories. Use dwarf kinds in containers, mixed borders, and masses. Use short types in containers, shrub borders, or near the house. Use medium types as small shade trees, street trees, or for screening. Give tall types lots of room and don't plant near the house. One 'Natchez' is plenty for a 900-square feet lawn.Crepe myrtles bloom on new growth and should be pruned in late winter or early spring. Dwarf and short types need only minor, cosmetic pruning. On medium and tall types, prune to a tree form. Remove suckers at the base, twiggy growth, crossing branches, and branches growing toward the center of the plant. Also gradually remove side branches on main trunks up to a height of 45 feet The tree should be open enough that a bird could fly through unimpeded. This exposes the handsome bark and also improves air circulation, making leaf diseases such as mildew and leaf spot less likely. Pruning off spent flower clusters (if you can reach them) in summer results in a second flush of blooms. If your soil is sandy or poor, give newly- planted crepe myrtles a drink of liquid fertilizer every 2 weeks in summer. After its first year in the ground, crepe myrtle needs no fertilizing.