Native to Europe, Mediterranean region, Asia. Grown for their pretty flowers carried atop attractive clump of roundish to heart-shaped basal leaves that are reddish beneath and often patterned with silver above. Blossoms, 13 inches long, resemble shooting stars or butterflies and typically come in white and shades of pink, rose, or red. Most types go through a near-leafless or leafless dormant period at some time during summer.Large-flowered florists' cyclamen (Cyclamen persicum) is most often seen as a container-grown gift plant. The other species described here are smaller-flowered, hardier plants better adapted to outdoor culture. Use them in rock gardens, in naturalized clumps under trees,  or as carpets under camellias, rhododendrons, and large  noninvasive ferns; hardy types  also grow well under native oaks. All are good container plants if grown out of direct sun.When buying any species cyclamen other than Cyclamen persicum, always check to ascertain that the tubers are commercially grown and not taken from the wild. Look for labels that mention Holland or cultivated.Dwarf or miniature florists' cyclamens are half- or three-quartersize replicas of standards. They can bloom in 7 to 8 months from seed. Miniature strains (profuse show of  inches flowers on 6- to 8 inches plants) include Miracle and Laser, both with fragrant blossoms.All cyclamens grow best in fairly rich, porous soil. Loosen soil to a depth of 1 feet and mix in coarse sand and lots of organic matter. If soil is acid, also work in some lime, as cyclamens prefer a neutral to slightly alkaline pH. Plant tubers of most types 610 inches apart,  inches deep. (Florists' cyclamen is an exception: Upper half of tuber should protrude above soil level.) Best planting time for tubers is dormant period in summer except for florists' cyclamen, which is always sold as a potted plant and can be planted out at any time. Top-dress annually with light application of potting soil with complete fertilizer added (being careful not to cover top of florists' cyclamen tubers). Do not cultivate around roots.Plants grow readily from seed. Small-flowered, hardy species take several years to bloom; older strains of florists' cyclamen need 15 to 18 months to mature and bloom from seed, while newer strains can bloom in as little as 7 months. Grown outdoors in open ground, plants often self-sow. To encourage this, mulch around plants with a thin layer of fine gravel. This provides niches where seeds can lodgeand has the added benefit of improving drainage.