Native to Western Europe primarily, these are arguably the finest and most valuable spring bulbs for the South. They are long lived, increasing naturally from year to year; they stand up to cold and heat; they have many garden uses; and they offer a fascinating array of flower forms, sizes, and colors. Given minimal care at planting, all thrive with virtually no further attention. They do not require summer watering (although they'll accept it) and need only infrequent division. Finally, rodents and deer won't eat them.Flowering commences in winter in the Lower and Coastal South, in early spring elsewhere. The basic colors are shades of yellow and white, but you'll also find orange, salmon, peach, apricot, pink, green, and even red.Gardeners tend to use the names daffodil, narcissus, and jonquil interchangeably. Technically, daffodil is the common name for the genus Narcissus in all forms, whereas jonquil denotes one type of narcissus, Narcissus jonquilla and its hybrids. Jonquils have smaller, fragrant, clustered blooms and cylindrical leaves with pointed tips, reminiscent of quills. If you stick to calling them all narcissus, you can't go wrong.All have the same basic flower structure. Each bloom has a perianth (six outer petal-like segments) that surrounds (and is held at right angles to) a central corona (also called the trumpet or cup, depending on its length).Most types reach 11 feet tall. Flowers usually face the sun; be sure to keep this in mind when choosing a planting spot. Use narcissus under high-branching trees and flowering shrubs, among ground cover plantings, in woodland and rock gardens, or in borders, but be sure they are not on the north side of taller plants that would shade them. They need sunlight to bloom year after year. Plant them in naturalistic, sweeping drifts. Grow them in containers. They make fine cut flowers, but it is best to pick them, breaking the stem at the base by hand, rather than with clippers. Give them a vase of their own; freshly cut stems release a substance that causes other cut flowers to wilt.Following are the generally recognized divisions of daffodils and recommended selections in each division. While there are many more selections than space allows, these are certainly proven growers in Southern gardens. Some old favorites are no longer in production, but some new ones are ready to take their places in a spring garden.Early-blooming types bearing clusters of 3 to 20 flowers on each stout stem; many have a musky-sweet fragrance that can be overpowering indoors. The most heat-tolerant group, they do well in central Florida; hardy only to about 10F. 'Avalanche' ('Seventeen Sisters') produces clusters of 15 to 20 blossoms with white segments and a yellow cup. 'Aspasia' is a lovely heirloom with white segments and yellow cup. 'Falconet' and 'Martinette' feature yellow segments and a red-orange cup. 'Geranium' and 'Cragford' have creamy white segments and an orange cup; 'Minnow' has a pale yellow cup and pale yellow segments that fade to cream.This division also includes the popular paperwhite group of narcissus that are commonly forced into early bloom indoors. Plant them in bowls of pebbles or soil and give them cool temperatures (5060F) and bright light. 'Grand Soleil d'Or' has golden yellow segments and an orange cup, 'Wintersun' has white segments and a soft yellow cup, and pure white 'Ziva' has the strong fragrance and easy-to-force nature of the classic paperwhite. 'Inbal' has all the quality of 'Ziva' but with a more delicate fragrance and flatter cup.Plant bulbs as soon as they are available in fall. They should feel solid and heavy and be free of discoloration. Double-nose bulbs will give you the most and largest flowers the first season after planting. For planting depth and spacing, see How To Grow Daffodils on page 447.After the blossoms fade, let the leaves mature and yellow naturallyif you cut the foliage before it yellows, subsequent flowering may be reduced or eliminated. Lift and divide clumps when flowers get smaller and fewer. To make this job easier, dig clumps just after the foliage withers so you can tell where the bulbs are. Separate the bulbs and replant them in freshly amended soil.Like other plants, narcissus bulbs need food. Bonemeal used to be the recommended fertilizer, but no more: It lacks the nitrogen that promotes healthy foliage.Special bulb fertilizers are much better; look for a 10-10-20 or 9-9-6 formulation with controlled-release nitrogen. Mix fertilizer into the soil at planting time. In subsequent years, sprinkle bulb fertilizer over the bulb bed each fall (when roots develop) at the rate specified on the bag, then scratch or water it inches Many gardeners are finding that the old-fashioned method of using compost at planting time and again in fall as a topdressing supplies the nutrients that bulbs need.The most serious pest is the narcissus bulb fly. An adult fly resembles a small bumblebee. The female lays eggs on leaves and on necks of bulbs; when eggs hatch, young grubs eat their way into bulbs. Check bulbs before planting, and destroy any grubs. Planting at the recommended depth will reduce infestations.