When talk turns to surefire perennials for the South, it doesn't take long for the word daylily to come up. Few plants offer so many flowers in so many colors for so little care. Tuberous, somewhat fleshy roots give rise to large clumps of arching, sword-shaped leaves that may be evergreen, semievergreen, or deciduous, depending on selection.Clusters of flowers resembling lilies appear at the ends of generally leafless, wandlike stems that rise well above the foliage. Each daylily flower stays open for only one day, hence the name daylily (the genus name comes from the Greek words for day and beauty). Most daylilies bloom once a year, producing numerous flowers over a 3- to 6-week period. Other types may bloom again later in the summer and are called rebloomers.Mass daylilies in solid sweeps, or mix them into herbaceous borders. Plant them on banks and roadsides, or group them near pools and streams. Dwarf types are excellent in rock gardens and containers or as low edging. Because the individual blooms close each evening, daylilies are not great cut flowers. But if you cut stems with well-developed buds, these will open on successive days, though each blossom is slightly smaller than the previous one.Set out bare-root or container-grown plants anytime the ground isn't frozen. Preferred times for planting are spring or fall. If deer are plentiful in your area, be warneddeer love most daylilies.Bloom usually begins in mid- to late spring, with early, midseason and late bloomers available. The warmer the climate the earlier the season starts. By planting all three types, you can extend the bloom period for up to two months. Reblooming types may put on a second or even third display in late summer to midautumn. These include 2 feet-high dwarf selections such as bright yellow 'Happy Returns', bright gold 'Stella de Oro', and burgundy 'Pardon Me'.New hybrids appear in such numbers that no book can keep up. To get the ones you want, visit daylily specialists, buy plants in bloom at your local nursery, or study catalogs.Daylilies adapt to almost any soil type, but for best results give them well-drained soil amended with organic matter. Provide regular moisture from spring through autumn. In spring, apply a complete organic fertilizer (5-3-3, 3-4-5, or similar) to soil around established plants. Follow label directions; be sure to keep fertilizer off foliage. Do not fertilize newly planted daylilies. When clumps become crowded (usually after 3 to 6 years), dig and divide them in fall or early spring.Though otherwise pest free, daylilies are now threatened by a potentially serious disease, daylily rust (Puccinia hemerocallidis), which is primarily a problem for growers in the Lower South and warmer. First identified in Georgia in 2000, this rapidly spreading fungus causes yellow to orange streaks and pustules to form on the leaves. The fungus is killed by cold weather, so its impact has been negligible in areas that receive freezing temperatures. To control, pick off and burn all infected leaves; then spray at regular intervals with a recommended product according to label directions. Consult with your local Cooperative Extension Office for product recommendations.