For many Southerners, there's only one dogwood: flowering dogwood (Cornus florida), widely considered the region's finest ornamental tree. But many types of dogwood exist, from good-sized, single-trunked trees to small, multistemmed, stoloniferous shrubs; there's even a ground-covering perennial dogwood. Some are spectacular in bloom, others barely noticeable. Some sport dazzling fall foliage; others don't. And even dogwoods lacking showy flowers or foliage have their strong points. Some flaunt colorful bark; others produce attractive fruits that feed birds and other wildlife.What appear to be flower petals in many dogwoods are in fact bractspetal-like modified leaves. These surround the inconspicuous true flowers.Selections include the following. In all, new wood is brightest; cut back in spring to force new growth.Best performance in full shade in cool mountain climates, in acid soil with generous amounts of organic matter. Set out small plants from pots about 1 feet apart. Small rooted pieces gathered from the woods may not establish easily. Excellent with rhododendrons, ferns, trilliums, lilies.Flowering dogwood grows fine in full sun if planted in deep, fertile soil that retains moisture. In shallow, dry, or rocky soil, it often leaf-scorches badly in summer droughts. Succeeds most reliably as an understory tree where it receives light shade; in heavy shade, it will not bloom.Unfortunately, an anthracnose fungus has been infecting and destroying these trees throughout their range. Dieback symptoms show up rst in lower branches and can spread to whole tree. Trees growing at high elevations and in shade are more susceptible. Borers often attack trunks and limbs of stressed trees. Variegated selections generally have more disease problems. Cornus orida has been bred with Cornus kousa to produce more disease-resistant hybrids; see Cornus x rutgersensis.Flowers are carried along tops of branches and show above the leaves. Narrow, 2- to 3 inches-long bracts with slender, pointed tips are creamy white, turning pink along edges. In late summer and fall, red fruits like big rasp- berries hang below branches. This species is less susceptible to diseases than Cornus florida and has been bred with the latter to produce resistant hybrids; see Cornus x rutgersensis.Good space ller in moist ground (good for holding banks); also good planted along property line as a screen. To control spread, use a spade to cut off roots; also trim branches that touch ground. Shade tolerant.