Once highly prized shade trees, elms have fallen on hard times. Dutch elm disease (spread by a bark beetle) has killed millions of American elms throughout North America and can attack most other elm species. Many of the larger elms are appealing fare  for various beetles, leafhoppers, aphids, and scale, making them time consuming to care for, messy, or both. Elms have other problems not related to pests. They have aggressive, shallow root systems, so you'll have trouble growing other plants beneath them. Many types produce suckers; branch crotches are often narrow, splitting easily in storms. Still,  elms are widely planted, valued for their fast growth, moderate shade, and environmental toughness. Researchers continue to devote much effort to finding disease-resistant selections. All elms are fairly soil tolerant, have handsome oval leaves.A long search for American elms resistant to Dutch elm  disease has culminated in a number of improved selections. Probable hybrid 'Jefferson' has dark green leaves that emerge earlier and are retained later. 'New Harmony' is broadly V-shaped, often with gracefully drooping branch tips. 'Valley Forge' grows into a dense, broad, upright  vase shape; it is considered the most disease-resistant selection. Moderately resistant 'Princeton' forms a broad umbrella.Forms that hold their leaves are often sold as 'Sempervirens', but that is not a valid name. Two more or less evergreen selections popular in the Coastal South (USDA 9) are 'Drake' and 'True Green'; they are not as cold hardy as others and are not recommended for the Upper or Middle South (USDA 6-7). Selections with particularly showy exfoliating bark include 'Allee', a vase-shaped tree to 70 feet tall, 60 feet wide; 'Athena', a lower, wide-spreading tree to 40 feet tall, 55 feet wide; 'Bosque', oval tree with strong central leader, 4050 feet tall and wide; 'Burgundy', a rounded tree to 18 feet tall, 20 feet wide after eight years, with burgundy fall color; 'Everclear', columnar, 40 feet tall,  15 feet wide; and 'Milliken', an oval to rounded tree to 50 feet high,  40 feet wide. Numerous dwarf  and compact selections, such as 'Hokkaido', are popular for bonsai.to 18 feet tall, 20 feet wide after eight years, with burgundy fall color; 'Everclear', columnar, 40 feet tall,  15 feet wide; and 'Milliken', an oval to rounded tree to 50 feet high,  40 feet wide. Numerous dwarf  and compact selections, such as 'Hokkaido', are popular for bonsai.A word of caution: A vastly inferior species, Ulmus pumila, Siberian elm, is sometimes sold as Chinese elm.