Maybe the reason so many people mistakenly call euonymus anonymous plants is that they can be hard to recognizethe evergreen and deciduous kinds look nothing alike. The colorful seed capsules common to both provide the only obvious hint that they're related. Deciduous types are valued for their brilliant fall leaf color or showy fruit. Evergreen typeswhich include some of the most cold-hardy, broad-leafed evergreensare employed as hedges, screens, and foundation plants. Foliage is quite variable in shape, but leaves of most are pointed-oval to lance-shaped. Most species tolerate either sun or shade, but deciduous types need sun for good fall color. Scale is a likely problem on any euonymus; treat with horticultural oil.Species Euonymus alatus and its selections take sun or shade. Group them as a screen, or plant them singly against dark evergreen plants for the greatest color impact. Compact selections make excellent unclipped hedges or foundation plants. Note that birds spread the seeds all over, and Euonymus alatus is considered an invasive pest in parts of the Upper and Middle South.The selections of Euonymus fortunei, several of which are listed here, are better known than the species itself. Many garden centers still sell them as forms of E.radicans, which was once thought to be the species but is now considered to be a botanical variety (see Euonymus f. radicans). Use restraint when considering the variegated forms; gaudy foliage can be overpowering.The species and its selections are very tolerant of heat, unfavorable soil, and seacoast conditions, but they're pest prone and susceptible to scale, thrips, and spider mites. Plants are notorious for powdery mildew; place in full-sun location with good air circulation to avoid it.Variegated forms are most popular; they are among the few shrubs that keep variegation in full sun in hot-summer climates. Their garish foliage is hard to work into the landscape, however, and often becomes an eyesore. Some confusion exists in plant labeling of variegated types.