Large genus of about 2,000 species. What is called a flower is technically a cyathium, which consists of fused bracts that form a cup around the much-reduced true flowers. Cyathia may appear singly or in clusters. In some cases, as with poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima), additional bracts below provide most of the color. Fruit is usually a dry capsule that releases seeds explosively, shooting them up to several feet away. Many euphorbias are succulents; these often mimic cacti in appearance and are as diverse in form and size. Only a few succulent types are listed here, but specialists in cacti and succulents can supply scores of species and selections.All euphorbias have milky white sap that is irritating on contact or toxic if ingested (degree of irritation or toxicity varies, depending on species). Before using cut flowers in arrangements, dip stems in boiling water or hold in a flame for a few seconds to prevent bleeding sap.Give these plants well-drained soil. Deer don't care for them.Useful garden plant in well-drained soil and full sun. Where adapted outdoors, needs no special care. Grow as informal hedge in the Tropical South; in the Coastal South, plant against sunny wall, in sheltered corner, under south-facing eaves. Plants grown outdoors in the Coastal South are likely to die down in winter. Thin branches in summer to produce larger bracts; or prune them back at 2-month intervals for bushy growth (but often smaller bracts). To improve red color, feed every 2 weeks with high-nitrogen fertilizer, starting when color begins to show.Unlike their predecessors, modern poinsettia selections retain their foliage well into spring if given reasonable light. To care for holiday gift plants, keep them in a cool, well-lit room until after the last frost. Avoid sudden temperature changes; keep soil moist, but don't let water stand in pot saucer. When frost danger is past, cut back stems to two buds and set plants out in garden; or keep them in containers in a sunny spot on the patio. Potted plant will probably grow too tall for indoor use the next winter but may survive winter if well sheltered. Start new plants by making late-summer cuttings of stems with four or five eyes (joints).