The average gardener would never expect to find the commercial edible fig, small-leafed climbing fig, and potted rubber tree under one common headingbut they are classed together because they bear small or large figs (inedible in most species). Ornamental types are discussed here; for sorts grown for tasty fruit, see Fig.Many ornamental species make good houseplants. Generally, they thrive on rich, steadily moist (not wet) soil; frequent light feedings; and bright, indirect light.One of the most popular indoor plants for a place in bright light. Sudden leaf shedding is a common problem, often resulting from plant's being moved to a new location. If shedding begins shortly after a move, be patient; leaves usually grow back. Leaves that fall off while green usually indicate insufficient water; try to keep soil evenly moist. If fallen leaves are yellow, overwatering may be to blame. If shedding is accompanied by a sweet smell and sticky leaves, look for scale insects and control with horticultural oil as needed. Don't site weeping figs in drafty areas or near stoves or heat registers.For an indoor tree that is similar in size and habit to Ficus benjamina but doesn't drop its foliage, try Ficus binnendijkii. It can tolerate lower light better than Ficus benjamina.As an indoor plant, weeping fig typically grows slowly to 810 feet tall, not quite as wide. These are among the most popular selections.One of the most foolproof indoor plants; can take less light than most big houseplants. If potted plant becomes too tall and leggy, you can cut off the top and select a side branch to form a new main shoot. Or get a new plant by air layering the top section; when roots form, cut branch section with attached roots and pot it up. The following are among the best selections.Prune at any time of year to shape as desired. Remove lower branches to reveal slim, light gray trunk. Responds well to shearing into formal hedge as low as 5 feet Where pest free, makes a highly satisfactory tree or tub plant. Unfortunately, subject to thrips damage in some areas; these pests are hard to control, since they quickly curl new leaves (thus protecting themselves from sprays). Afflicted leaves show stippling, then drop. Full sun. 'Green Gem' has thicker, darker green leaves and is apparently unaffected by thrips.Looks innocent enough in youth, making a delicate tracery of tiny, heart-shaped leaves. Neat little juvenile foliage ultimately develops into big (2- to 4 inches-long), leathery leaves borne on stubby branches that bear large, oblong fruits. In time, stems will envelop a three- or four-story building so completely that it becomes necessary to keep them trimmed away from windows. It's safe to use on masonry house walls, but not wooden ones. Remove fruiting stems from time to time as they form. Roots are invasive. 'Minima' has shorter, narrower leaves than the species. Small, lobed leaves of Ficus p. quercifolia look like miniature oak leaves. 'Variegata' has standard-size leaves with creamy white markings.