A traditional favorite fruit tree of the Deep South, edible fig (Ficus carica) is a low-branching plant with multiple trunks; it grows fairly rapidly to 1530 feet tall and spreads at least as wide. In the Middle South, it may freeze back to the ground during cold winters and act like a big shrub. It's easy to grow in a large container and can also be trained as an espalier.Heavy, gray-barked, smooth trunks (gnarled in really old trees) are picturesque in silhouette. Bright green, rough-textured leaves with three to five lobes are 49 inches long and nearly as wide. Casts dense shade. Winter framework, tropical-looking foliage, strong trunk and branch pattern make fig a top-notch ornamental tree, especially near a patio where it can be illuminated from beneath. Protect container plants in winter. Fruit drop is a problem immediately above deck or paving.The type of figs generally grown in the South do not require pollination. Some will even bear two crops. Depending on the selection, the first crop comes in June or July on last year's wood; the second and more important one comes in July to October from current summer's wood. Keep fruit picked as it ripens; protect from birds if you can. In late fall, pick off any remaining ripe figs and clean up fallen fruit.Types differ in climate adaptability; most need prolonged high temperatures to bear good fruit, while some thrive in cooler conditions. Selections are noted below. Those with everbearing in their name will produce a good crop even if damaged by cold the previous winter.In general, the darker colored figs usually have greater shelf life. The lighter ones may have fantastic flavor, but may lose quality more quickly.Not particular about soil. In the Middle South, plant figs near a south wallor train them against oneto benefit from reflected heat. Cut back tops hard at planting. As tree grows, prune lightly each winter: Cut out dead wood, crossing branches, and low-hanging branches that interfere with traffic. Pinch back runaway shoots at any time. Avoid deep cultivation, which may damage surface roots. Do not use high-nitrogen fertilizers; they stimulate growth at expense of fruit. If burrowing animals are a problem, plant trees in ample wire baskets. Figs are not usually browsed by deer.