Native to the American Tropics, plumerias are fabulous additions to the home garden, whether grown in containers or, where winter hardy, the ground. The source of flowers for Hawaiian leis, they range in size from compact shrubs rarely exceeding 4 feet in height to small, rounded trees that reach 30 feet Showy clusters of flowers up to 6 inches across appear atop large, leathery, oblong leaves for months on end. The waxy, five-petaled blooms may be star shaped, saucer shaped, or pinwheel shaped. They exhibit a dizzying range of colors and patterns. Most are highly fragrant. Propagation is easy by seeds or tip cuttings. Named selections represent the species Plumeria obtusa, Plumeria rubra, or hybrids of the two. Here are some of our favorites:Plumerias thrive in either acid or alkaline soil that contains lots of organic matter. Good drainage is a must. They have big appetites while actively growing, so feed regularly during this time with a bloom-booster fertilizer that's relatively high in phosphorus and low in nitrogen, with added iron and magnesium. Let the soil go dry between thorough waterings. Established plants in the ground require very little water. Plumerias enjoy hot weather but also tolerate brief frosts. Can be left outdoors for winter only in the Tropical South. Fortunately, they do great in containersbut they can quickly become rootbound. When you see roots protruding from the drainage hole, remove the plant, prune off roots that tightly encircle the root ball, and replant in a larger pot.Few insects and diseases affect plumerias. The most common, a fungus called plumeria rust, causes orange pustules on the undersides of leaves. Leaves then develop black blotches and drop prematurely. Control rust by promptly removing and throwing away any diseased leaves. Then spray healthy foliage with neem oil.Almost all plumerias go through an annual dormant period lasting one to several months in which they drop their leaves. Though this is a resting phase not related to temperature, gardeners outside of the Tropical South can easily make it coincide with winter. When nights start to cool in fall, stop watering. Leaves will turn yellow and drop. Move plumerias into a cool room or garage. No water or light is needed until you take them out in spring.