Fairly fast-growing trees, most of which tolerate hot summers, cold winters, and many kinds of soil, including alkaline sorts. Chiefly used as street, shade, and lawn trees. In most cases, leaves are divided into leaflets. Male and female flowers (generally inconspicuous, in clusters) grow on separate trees in some species, on the same tree in others. In the latter case, flowers are often followed by clusters of single-seeded, winged fruit, often in such abundance that they can be a litter problem. When flowers are on separate trees, you'll get fruit on a female tree only if a male tree grows nearby.Ashes are prone to borers, and in 2002, a particularly destructive type was found to have made its way to the U.S. from Asia. The emerald ash borer (EAB) is a  inches-long, dark metallic green beetle in the adult stage; the larvae, which can reach 1 inches long, feast beneath the tree's bark and cut off the supply of water and nutrients to the branches above. Most of an infected tree's canopy will die within 2 years. Adults can fly up to mile from tree to tree, and the pests are also believed to be spread by ash firewood being shipped from one area to another. EAB has been found in Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. There is no effective treatment so far. Contact your local Cooperative Exension Office for more information.Seedless selections include 'Autumn Applause' and 'Autumn Purple', both with exceptionally good, long-lasting purple fall color; 'Champaign County', a dense grower with pale yellow fall color; 'Greenspire', narrow, upright habit, deep orange fall color; 'Rosehill', with bronzy red fall color; 'Royal Purple', upright grower with purple autumn leaves; and 'Skyline', an upright oval with brown and purple fall color.Seedless kinds include 'Emerald', a round-headed tree with glossy, deep green leaves and yellow fall color; 'Georgia Gem', with large, bright green leaves and good heat tolerance; 'Marshall's Seedless', a male form with lustrous, deep green foliage and good yellow fall color; 'Summit', upright habit, good golden yellow fall color; and 'Urbanite', pyramidal shape and bronze fall color.