Native to South Africa. The daisy flowers put on a dazzling display of color during peak bloom in late spring and early summer and they continue to bloom inter- mittently throughout the year. Gazanias grow well in almost any well-drained soil. Feed once in spring with slow-acting fertilizer. Divide plants every 3 to 4 years.Seed grown kinds include 'Carnival', with silver leaves and flowers in many colors; 'Chansonette', an early bloomer with round, medium-size blossoms on compact plants; and 'Daybreak', with low-growing, spreading plants bearing flowers in orange, bronze, yellow, yellow striped with red, and mixed colors. 'Harlequin' has eyed and banded blooms in many colors. 'Mini-Star' is compact and floriferous. 'New Day' has large blooms in the full color range; shorter flower stems give plants a compact, beefy look. 'Sunbather' is compact and heat tolerant, with large (nearly 6 inches-wide) flowers in golden orange, yellow, bronzy orange, and creamy white; blooms are semidouble, so they don't close completely, regardless of light levels. 'Sundance' produces especially large (to 5 inches-wide) striped and banded flowers; 'Sun- shine Giants' produce big, multicolored flowers and gray leaves.Selections of special merit are 'Aztec' (cream with maroon stripes), 'Aztec Queen' (multicolored), 'Burgundy', 'Christopher Lloyd' (bright pink with a yellow eye encircled by green), 'Copper King', and 'Fiesta Red'. All are best used in small-scale plantings, though the last is sturdy enough for large areas. 'Moonglow' is a double-flowered bright yellow of unusual vigor; its blossoms, unlike most, stay open even on overcast, dull days. 'Tiger Eye' has golden-orange blooms and green leaves edged with cream.Trailing gazanias (derived from Gazania rigens leucolaena) grow about as tall as clumping ones but spread rapidly by long, trailing stems. Foliage is a handsome silvery gray; flowers are yellow, white, orange, or bronze. Larger-flowered kinds are 'Sunburst' (orange with black eye) and 'Sunglow' (yellow). 'Sunrise Yellow', also in larger-flowered group, has black-eyed yellow blooms; leaves are green. Hybrid trailing plants are superior to older kinds in length of bloom and resistance to dieback. Use trailing gazanias on banks; or grow them at the top of a wall and allow them to trail over. Attractive in hanging baskets.