The common name geranium is widely used for members of the genus Pelargoniumbut botanically speaking, it is not really accurate. Pelargoniums are woody-based perennials (most of them native to South Africa) that endure light frosts but not hard freezes and have slightly asymmetrical flowers in clusters. True geraniums, on the other hand, belong to the genus Geraniumannuals and peren- nials (some woody based) native mainly to the Northern Hemisphere, bearing symmetrical flowers either singly or in clusters.Tough, attractive geraniums for outdoor bedding can be grown from seed; will flower the first summer. Available strains include Americana (bright green foliage, compact); Eclipse (dark green foliage, compact); Elite (quick to reach blooming stage, compact, needs no pinching); Maverick (open habit with many flowering stems); Multibloom (compact, early blooming); and Orbit (distinct leaf zoning; broad, rounded flower clusters). 'Orange Appeal', a seed-grown selection, has blooms in pure bright orange. There are also dwarf, cactus-flowered, and other novelty types.Fancy-leafed or color-leafed selections have zones, borders, or splashes of brown, gold, red, white, and green in various combinations. Some also have highly attractive flowers. 'Golden Ears', 1 feet high and wide, has small, deeply cut, almost star-shaped leaves of deep bronzy red with a wide border of chartreuse; flowers are bright coral. 'Vancouver Centennial' is very similar if not identical. 'Mrs. Pollock' has green leaves with a red zone and a creamy yellow margin; it bears vermilion blooms.Common geraniums sometimes stop blooming during extended periods of high summer heata condition known as heat check. (They'll resume blooming when cooler weather arrives.) To avoid this condition, give plants light afternoon shade; or grow heat-tolerant types, such as the Americana, Eclipse, Maverick, or Orbit series.Plant in any good, fast-draining soil. Amend poor soil with plenty of organic matter. Geraniums growing in good garden soil need little fertilizer; those in light, sandy soil should receive two or three feedings during active growth. Remove faded flowers regularly to encourage new bloom. Pinch growing tips of young, small plants to force side branches. All geraniums do well in pots; they bloom best when somewhat pot-bound. Common pests include aphids, whiteflies, and spider mites. Tobacco budworm may be a problem in some areas; affected flowers look tattered or fail to open at all. Most pests easily controlled by spraying with neem oil or spinosad.