These old-fashioned favorites are prized for their tubular, often flaring or ruffled blossoms borne in unbranched or branching, usually one-sided spikes in an extremely wide color range. All have sword-shaped leaves. Bloom from spring to fall, depending on kind and time of planting. Superb cut flowers. Good in borders or beds behind mounding plants that cover lower parts of stems, or in large con- tainers with low annuals at base.Group known as butterfly gladiolus has 2- to 3 feet stems bearing more closely spaced flowers; distinct throat markings or blotches of contrasting color give butterfly appearance. Plant in early spring.The newer types of garden gladiolus grow to about 5 feet tall, have sturdier spikes bearing from 12 to 14 open flowers at one time. They are better garden plants than older types and stand upright without staking. Another group, called miniature gladiolus, grows 3 feet tall, with spikes of 15 to 20 flowers, each 2123 inches wide; useful in garden beds and for cutting.High-crowned corms, 1122 inches wide, are more productive than older, larger corms (2 inches wide or more). After soil has warmed in spring, plant at 1- to 2-week intervals for 4 to 6 weeks for progression of bloom. Corms bloom 65 to 100 days after planting. Mix plenty of organic compost into the soil before planting. When plants have five leaves, apply complete bulb fertilizer 6 inches from plants and water it in thoroughly. For cut flowers, cut spikes when lowest buds begin to open, leaving a minimum of four leaves on plants to build up corms. If thrips cause whitish streaking on leaves, spray foliage with insecticidal soap or horti- cultural oil.Plant in rich, well-drained soil. Set corms about four times deeper than their height (plant somewhat shallower in heavy soils). Space big corms 6 inches apart, smaller ones 4 inches apart. Corms can generally be left in the ground from year to year in Middle, Lower, and Coastal South. In the Upper South, dig soon after first frost in autumn. Dry corms on a flat surface in a dark, dry area for 2 to 3 weeks; then store over winter in a single layer in flats or ventilated trays in a cool place (4050F). In the Tropical South, refrigerate corms for a month before planting, then treat as annuals and discard after plant has finished blooming.