Distinctive, long-lived plants that add color to the garden for several months in winter and spring, hellebores are also appreciated for their attractive foliage. Each leaf consists of a long leafstalk ending in large, leathery leaflets grouped together like fingers on an outstretched hand.All hellebores form tight clumps of many growing points, but species differ in their manner of growth. Some have stems that rise from the ground, with leaves all along their length; stems produce flowers at their tip in their second year, then die to the ground as new stems emerge to replace them. In other species, leaves are not carried on tall stems but arise directly from growing points at ground level; separate (typically leafless) flower stems spring from the same points.Flowers are usually cup or bell shaped (those of Helleborus niger are saucer shaped), either outward facing or drooping; they consist of a ring of petal-like sepals ranging in color from white and green through pink and red to deep purple (rarely yellow). Flowers of all hellebores persist beyond the bloom periods listed below, gradually turning green. Blossoms are attractive in arrangements: After you cut them, slice the bottom inch of the stems lengthwise or seal cut ends by searing over a flame or immersing in boiling water for a few seconds. Then place in cold water. Or simply float flowers in a bowl of water.Mass hellebores under high-branching trees, on north or east side of walls, or in beds. They are not damaged by deer or rodents.In addition to the following, a half-dozen or more other species are sometimes available. Species here have leafy stems unless otherwise noted.Plant in good, well-drained soil amended with plenty of organic matter. Plants prefer soil that is somewhat alkaline but will also grow well in neutral to slightly acid conditions (Helleborus niger is an exception; it must have alkaline soil). Feed once or twice a year. Don't disturb hellebores once planted; they resent moving and may take 2 or more years to re-establish. If well sited, however, they may self-sow, and young seedlings can be transplanted in early spring. Offspring may not resemble the parent exactly, but all are attractive. Remove spent flowers when they become unattractive. For Helleborus argutifolius and Helleborus foetidus, cut flowering stems back to ground level after blooms fade. Black spot is a common fungal disease of Helleborus x hybridus that can be minimized by removing all foliage in winter before the flowers push up. Do not compost these leaves, as they will spread the spores.