Among the showiest flowering plants in Southern gardens, hibiscus typically bear funnel-shaped blossomssometimes as big as dinner plates and often with prominent stamens. The many species offer an astonishing range of flower colors, and most bloom over a long season. Flowers attract butterflies and hummingbirds. Whiteflies and aphids are common pests; insecticidal soap is a good control for both.Seed-grown strains often flower the first year if sown indoors and planted out early; these plants are bushier and more uniform than the species. Southern Belle strain grows 4 feet tall; Cordials series plants are 3 feet tall; Vintage series reach 23 feet tall; Disco Belle, Frisbee, Luna, and Rio Carnival strains are 2212 feet tall. Flowers are 812 inches wide, come in red, pink, rose, or white, often with a red eye.The many cutting-grown selections and hybrids include the following. Unless otherwise noted, all reach about 4 feet high.A longtime favorite of Southern gardeners, this is one of the showiest flowering shrubs. Reaches 30 feet tall and 1520 feet wide in its native tropical Asia, but seldom grows over 15 feet tall in the U.S. Glossy foliage varies somewhat in size and texture, depending on selection. Growth habit may be dense and dwarfish or loose and open. Flowers are single or double, 48 inches wide. Colors range from white through pink to red, from yellow and apricot to orange. Individual flowers usually last only a day or two, but the plant blooms continuously in spring and fall; may slow in summer, as high temperatures can cause bud drop. Aphids may also cause bud drop; use horticultural oil or insecticidal soap to control them.Requires acid soil and excellent drainage; if necessary, improve soil or set plants in raised beds or containers. Fertilize monthly (potted plants twice monthly) with a general-purpose liquid fertilizer April to September, then stop fertilizing and let growth harden. For good branch structure, prune poorly shaped young plants when you set them out in spring. To keep a mature plant growing vigorously, prune out about a third of old wood in early spring. Pinching out tips of stems in spring and summer increases flower production. These are some of the selections available:Plant grows upright and compact when young, spreading and opening with age to 1012 feet tall and 6 feet wide; easily trained to a single trunk or espaliered against a wall. Leaves to 4 inches long, with three coarsely toothed lobes, emerge somewhat late in spring and drop in fall with little color. Flowers resembling those of hollyhock (Alcea) appear in summer. Blossoms are single, semidouble, or double, 2123 inches across, often with a contrasting purplish throat. Though single forms are more attractive than doubles, most produce more seeds (and hence, more seedlings) than doubles. Self-sown seedlings can be weedy. New sterile selections are seedless.Easy to grow in almost any well-drained soil. Tolerates heat and drought. Prune in winter, as blooms form on new growth. Japanese beetles that eat flowers and leaves can be serious pests. Control by hand-picking the beetles or spraying plant with neem oil, a natural pesticide. Deer resistant.Recommended selections include the following:Plants in the Chiffon series have soft-colored flowers with a ruffled center that gives them the look of anemones. Satin series plants are robust growers with blooms in rich shades of blue, light pink, rose-pink, and violet, all with a dark red center.The U.S. National Arboretum has introduced selections developed by famed plant breeder Don Egolf. These plants are triploids; the extra set of chromosomes results in large blossoms with strong, heavy-textured petals. Because plants produce little seed, flowers appear over a long period. Choices include 'Aphrodite', bearing single, rose-pink flowers with a deep red eye; 'Diana' (the most popular of this group), with single, pure white blossoms; 'Helene', single, white flowers with a deep red eye; 'Minerva', single, ruffled, lavender blooms with a reddish purple eye.