Few plants are as dependable, versatile, and popular as hollies. More than 400 species and countless hybrids exist. Although a number of deciduous kinds have spectacular winter berries, Southerners generally prefer evergreen types that feature handsome foliage year-round and showy fruit as a bonus. In size, hollies range from foot-high mounds to trees 4050 feet tall. Smaller, shrublike plants are useful as foundation plantings and low hedges. Large evergreen hollies make attractive tall screens and informal hedges, and they're also good in corner plantings or as single specimens in a spacious lawn. Small-leafed types can be sheared into formal hedges or used for topiary.Nearly all holly plants are either male or female, and as a rule both sexes must be present for female plants to set fruit. The selections described here are female unless otherwise noted. A few set fruit without a pollenizer; these are noted too.English holly is arguably the most ornamental holly, but it's not easy to grow in most of the South. Dislikes high humidity coupled with high temperatures; does not do well with poor drainage, extreme cold, dry winter winds. Ilex 'Nellie R. Stevens' is a better choice for achieving a similar effect. Selections of English holly include the following.Most hollies prefer rich, moist, slightly acid, well-drained soil, though there are some exceptions (these are noted). All appreciate a layer of mulch to discourage weeds and keep the soil cool and moist. Though hollies will grow in sun or light shade, you'll get denser growth and heavier berry production in full sun. Diseases and insects are seldom serious; scale and leaf miner are the most common pests.Evergreen hollies accept pruning quite well. Prune in winter to shape, control size, and harvest berry-laden branches for holiday arrangements. Also remove dead, broken, or crossing branches. Hollies that have grown too large or have become misshapen can be restored by severely shortening main branches; new growth will sprout from branch stubs and quickly fill inches.