 have exploded in popularity in recent years, thanks to their spectacular, long-lasting flowers in blue, purple, pink, red, or white. Close inspection reveals that each flower cluster is composed of tiny, fertile, seed-producing flowers on the inside, and large, showy, sterile flowers on the outside. 'Mopheads' feature large, rounded or conical clusters of sterile flowers that hide the fertile flowers inside. 'Lacecaps' display flattened clusters of fertile flowers ringed by showy sterile flowers. Fertile and sterile flowers may be two different colors depending on soil.These plants are famed for the ability of their flowers to change colors due to soil conditions, but this only occurs in three of the listed speciesH. aspera, Hydrangea macrophylla, and Hydrangea serrataand for selections with flowers of blue, purple, pink, or red. Strongly acid soil (pH 5.5 and lower) produces the bluest colors; alkaline soil (pH 7.1 and above) produces pink and red flowers; and slightly acid to neutral soil (pH 6.5 to 7) produces a mix of blue, pink, and purple flowers. Soil pH does not affect white blooms in these species. It also doesn't cause the color change in species like Hydrangea paniculata and Hydrangea quercifolia; their blooms typically change from white to rose as they age.To acidify the soil, sprinkle aluminum sulfate or garden sulfur around your hydrangea, and water it inches To make the soil alkaline, do the same with lime. Don't expect overnight change. The change could take a year and require repeated applications.Hundreds of named selections exist. Those listed below represent our top picks. Some bloom once a year for several weeks on the previous year's growth. Others bloom repeatedly on both old and new growth, as long as plant is kept actively growing in summer through frequent watering. Flowers for most can be either blue or pink, depending on soil pH.Cityline series. Mopheads. Compact, sturdy-stemmed plants that need no pruning. Variety of colors. Mildew resistant. Grows 3 feet tall and wide.Forever & Ever series. Mopheads and lacecaps. Repeat bloomers. Similar to '' Series, but with larger flower clusters and larger individual florets. Blue, pink, white, red, and bicolor plants. Grow 4 feet tall and wide.Moist, well-drained, fertile soil is best. Prune hydrangeas that bloom on new growth in late winter. Prune those that bloom on last year's growth as this year's blooms start to fade. Prune repeat bloomers anytime. Keep in mind that most hydrangeas need little pruning other than removing dead wood in spring.