Of the hundreds of species, only the following are usually seen in gardens. Most of these are annuals or tender perennials treated as annuals; all are valuable for long bloom period (most flower in summer, and a few continue into fall). When lightly touched, ripe seed capsules burst open and scatter seeds.Popular strains include 'Celebration' (with 3 inches flowers), 'Paradise', 'Sunshine', and 'Pure Beauty'. Most New Guinea hybrids are cutting-grown plants, but 'Spectra' ('Firelake') and 'Java' strains can be grown from seed. 'Spectra' offers a mix of flower colors and has leaves variegated with cream or white; bronze-leafed 'Java' is available in single or mixed colors. 'Tango', also seed grown, has bright orange blooms and bronze-green foliage.SunPatiens strain is the result of a cross between New Guinea hybrids and a wild species. These are long-lived, free-blooming plants that can take full sun in all but the hottest areas. Flower colors range from pinks and reds through coral and orange and white. Three form-based series are offered: Compact (upright and bushy, to 23 feet tall and wide); Spreading (mounding growth to 23 feet tall and 3 feet wide); and Vigorous (vase-shaped, 34 feet tall and 3 feet wide).At any given moment, there are dozens of excellent strains on the market; many are just nuanced versions of the others. Following are some of the more popular.Accent. To 10 inches high, in numer- ous individual colors or a mix.Blitz. To 16 inches high, with 2 inches flowers in mixed or single colors.Dazzler. To 11 inches high, in all colors plus a star pattern.Super Elfin. To 810 inches high. Comes in an exceptionally wide range of individual colors and blends of harmonizing hues. One example is 'Blue Pearl', with flowers in an unusual bluish lilac shade.Swirl. To 1012 inches high. Pastel shades with picotee edges of deeper color.Many novelty strains and selections are available. They include 'Firefly', dwarf series to 68 inches high, with 12 inches flowers in the full range of impatiens colors; 'Confection', 1012 inches., producing a high percentage of double and semidouble flowers from seed; and 'Victorian Rose', 1012 inches., with frilly, rose-pink, semidouble flowers. Other double impatiens with flowers resembling rosebuds include cutting-grown 'Fiesta', 'Rockapulco', and 'Tioga' strains. The double-flowered types are best used as potted plants, located where flower detail can be observed close up.