A large and remarkably diverse group of 200 to 300 species, varying in flower color and form, cultural needs, and blooming periods (although the majority flower in spring or early summer). Leaves are swordlike or grasslike. Flowers (fragrant, in many kinds) are showy and complex in struc ture. The three inner segments (the standards) are petals; they are usually erect or arching but, in some kinds, may flare to horizon- tal. The three outer segments (the falls) are petal-like sepals; they are held at various angles, from nearly horizontal to drooping.Irises grow from bulbs or rhi- zomes. In floral detail, there are three categories: bearded (each fall bears an adornment resembling a small, fuzzy caterpillar), beardless (each fall is smooth), and crested (each fall bears a comblike ridge instead of a full beard).Described here are the irises most available in the South. Tall bearded irises (and other bearded classes) are the most widely sold; many new hybrids are cataloged every year. Specialty growers abound. A smaller number offer various beardless classes and some species. Retail nurseries carry bulbous irises for fall planting. Deer don't usually bother irises.Dutch and Spanish irises. Zones US, MS, LS; USDA 6-8. The species that parented this group come from Spain, Portugal, Sicily, and northern Africa. (Dutch irises acquired their name because the hybrid group was developed by Dutch bulb growers.) Flowers are borne atop slender stems that rise from rushlike foliage. Standards are narrow and upright; oval to circular falls project downward. Colors include white, mauve, blue, purple, brown, orange, yellow, as well as bicolor combinationsusually with a yellow blotch on falls. Dutch iris flowers reach 34 inches across, on stems 1122 feet tall; these are the irises sold by florists. Bloom is early spring in warm-winter regions, late spring in colder ones. Spanish irises are similar but have smaller flowers that bloom about two weeks later.Plant bulbs in autumn, setting them 4 inches deep, 34 inches apart; give full sun. Bulbs are hardy to about 10F; in Upper South, apply a mulch in winter. Give regular water during growth and bloom. Bulbs can be left in the ground for several years where summers are dry; elsewhere, they should be lifted. After bloom, let foliage ripen before digging; store bulbs in a cool, dry place for no more than two months before replanting. Dutch and Spanish irises are good in containers; plant five bulbs in a 5- to 6 inches pot.Reticulata irises. Zones US, MS, LS; USDA 6-8. The netted outer covering on the bulbs gives the group its name. These are classic rock garden and container plants, with flowers like small Dutch irises appearing on 6- to 8 inches stems in early spring. Narrow, blue-green leaves appear after bloom. Available species include Iris reticulata, with 2- to 3 inches violet-scented flowers (purple, in the usual forms), and Iris danfordiae, with bright yellow blooms. Pale blueflowered species Iris histrio and large-flowered, blue-and-yellow Iris histrioides may be carried by some specialists. Far more common are named hybrids such as 'Cantab' (pale blue with orange markings), 'Harmony' (sky-blue marked yellow), 'J. S. Dijt' (reddish purple), 'Katherine Hodgkin' (light greenish blue marked with white, yellow, and violet), 'Natascha' (palest blue flowers marked yellow), and 'Pixie' (deep blue marked gold and white).Bulbs are hardy to about 10F and need some subfreezing winter temperatures to thrive. Plant in autumn, in well-drained soil in a sunny location; set bulbs 34 inches deep and 34 inches apart. Need regular moisture from fall through spring. Soil should be kept dry during summer dormant period; in rainy climates, lift bulbs in summer or grow in pots so you can control moisture. Divide only when vigor and flower quality deteriorate. Watch for slugs and snails.Clumps become overcrowded after 3 or 4 years, and quantity and quality of bloom decrease. Lift and divide crowded clumps at best planting time for your area. Save large rhizomes with healthy leaves; discard old and leafless ones from clump's center. Break rhizomes apart or use a sharp knife to separate. Trim leaves, roots to about 6 inches.; let cut ends heal for several hours to a day before replanting. If replanting in the same soil, amend it with organic matter.Zones US, MS, LS, CS; USDA 6-9. The most widely grown irises fall into the bearded group. More than a century of breeding has produced a vast array of beautiful hybrids. All have upright standards and flaring to pendent falls that have characteristic epaulette-like beards. Tall bearded irises are the most familiar of these, but they represent just one subdivision of the entire group. Eating any part of these causes gastric upset, and plants have poisoned livestock. In addition, some people get contact dermatitis from handling the rhizomes.Dwarf and median bearded irises. These irises generally have flowers shaped like those of the familiar tall beardeds, but flower size, plant size, and stature are smaller. Median iris is a collective term for the categories standard dwarf, intermediate and border bearded, and miniature tall bearded.Miniature dwarf bearded irises. Grow to 8 inches tall; flowers large for size of plant. Earliest to bloom of bearded irises (about six weeks before main show of tall beardeds). Hardy, need winter chill. Plants multiply quickly. Shallow root systems need regular moisture and periodic feeding.Standard dwarf bearded irises. Grow 815 inches tall. Flowers and plants are larger than miniature dwarfs. Profuse bloom. Perform best with some winter chill.Intermediate bearded irises. Grow 1528 inches tall, bear flowers 35 inches across. Flower later than dwarfs but one to three weeks before tall bearded irises. Most are hybrids between standard dwarfs and tall bearded selections and resemble larger standard dwarfs rather than border beardeds. Some give second bloom in fall.Border bearded irises. Grow 1528 inches tallproportionately smaller versions of tall beardeds in the same wide range of colors and patterns. Bloom period is same as for tall bearded.Miniature tall bearded irises. Grow 1528 inches high and flower at the same time as tall beardeds. Their small flowers (23 inches wide), narrower foliage, and pencil-thin stems give them appearance of tall bearded irises reduced in every proportion. Good for cutting and arrangementshence their original name, table irises.Tall bearded irises. Among choicest perennials for borders, massing, and cutting. Easy to grow. Midspring flowers come on branching stems 2124 feet high. All colors but pure red and green; patterns of two colors or more and blends produce infinite variety. Countless named selections are available. Modern hybrids often have elaborately ruffled, fringed flowers. Available variegated-foliage selections include 'Pallida Variegata' (often cataloged as 'Zebra'), with green leaves striped with cream; and 'Argentea', producing green leaves with white stripes. Both bear smallish blue-lavender flowers on stems to 2 feet high.Remontant (reblooming) tall bearded irises flower in spring, again in mid- to late summer or fall, depending on selection and climate. Plants need fertilizer, regular moisture for best performance. Specialists' catalogs offer increasing numbers of remontant tall beardeds.Japanese irises. Zones US, MS, LS, CS; USDA 6-9. Derived solely from Iris ensata (formerly Iris kaempferi), these irises feature sumptuous blossoms 412 inches across on slender stems to 4 feet high. Flower shape is essentially flat. Single types have three broad falls and much-reduced standards, giving triangular flower outline; double blossoms have standards marked like the falls and about the same size and shape, resulting in circular flower outline. Colors are purple, violet, pink, rose, red, whiteoften veined or edged in contrasting shade. Plants have graceful, narrow, upright leaves with distinct raised midribs. Use in moist borders, at edge of pools or streams, or even in boxes or pots plunged halfway to rim in pond or pool during growing season.Plants need much moisture during growing, flowering period. Both soil and water should be neutral to acid. If soil or water is alkaline, apply aluminum sulfate or iron sulfate (1 ounce to 2 gallons water) several times during growing season. Plant rhizomes in fall or spring, 2 inches deep and 112 feet apart; or plant up to three per 12 inches container. Full sun. Divide about every 3 years, in early fall.Specialists offer a vast array of named hybrids; some may carry the basic species as well. Zigzag iris (Iris brevicaulis, sometimes listed as Iris foliosa) has blue flowers with flaring segments carried on zigzag stems among the foliage. Copper iris (Iris fulva) has coppery to rusty red (rarely yellow) blossoms with narrow, drooping segments. Iris giganticaerulea is indeed a giant blue (sometimes white) with upright standards and flaring falls; stems to 4 feet or more, with proportionally large leaves. Iris hexagona also comes in blue shades with upright standards and flaring falls. Iris xnelsonii, a natural hybrid population derived from Iris fulva and Iris giganticaerulea, resembles the Iris fulva parent in flower shape and color (but also includes purple and brown tones) and approaches the Iris giganticaerulea parent in size.Plants thrive in well-watered, rich garden soil as well as at pond margins; soil and water should be neutral to acid. Locate in light afternoon shade. Plant in late summer; set rhizomes 1 inches deep, 1122 feet apart. Mulch for winter where ground freezes. Divide every 3 to 4 years, in late summer or early fall.Give plants partial or dappled shade, neutral to acid soil. Plant in spring or fall; set rhizomes 12 inches deep, 12 feet apart. Water liberally from onset of growth until several weeks after bloom. Divide infrequentlywhen clumps show hollow centersin late spring or fall.Plant rhizomes in late summer or early fall, in rich, neutral to slightly alkaline soil; set them 1 inches deep, 1122 feet apart. Plants grow well in full sun but will also take light shade for part of the day. They need ample moisture from onset of growth through bloom period but little moisture during summer. Divide clumps (not an easy task) infrequently; do the job in late summer or early fall.Zones US, MS, LS; USDA 6-8. Sterile hybrid originating in the Middle East, where it was often planted in Muslim graveyards. Popular passalong plant in the South, usually seen in older gardens and cemeteries. Sword-shaped leaves to 112 feet.; white flowers with yellow-and-white beards in very early spring. Easy to grow, needing only good drainage and a spot in full sun or light shade. Moderate to regular water; established plants take drought and neglect.Several hybrids are excellent foliage plants with distinctive blossoms. All prefer ample water (but not pond conditions), sun to light shade. 'Holden Clough' perhaps has Iris foetidissima as its other parent. Flowers, 34 inches across, are soft tan heavily netted with maroon veins. Stems grow to 4 feet.; leaves reach 45 feet., but tips arch over. Two of its seedlings are similar but larger. 'Phil Edinger' grows to 412 feet with arching foliage; 4- to 5 inches flowers are brass colored, heavily veined in brown. 'Roy Davidson' is similar, but flowers are dark yellow with ne brown veining and maroon thumbprint on falls.Specialty growers offer hybrids between Iris versicolor and other species. Violet-flowered 'Gerald Darby', a hybrid with Iris virginica, has striking wine-red stems. Violet-flowered 'Black Gamecock', a hybrid with Iris x fulvala, has dark purple blooms.Provide organically enriched soil, light shade, and regular water. Good companion for hostas. Short lived in regions where summers are hot and dry. 'Paltec', a hybrid of Iris tectorum with a bearded iris, will grow with bearded irises; it reaches about 1 feet high, with lavender flowers suggesting a bearded iris with beards superimposed on crests.