Ivy is appreciated by some gardeners for its ability to cover quickly, reviled by others for its invasive tendencies. Spreads horizontally over the ground; also climbs on walls, fences, trellises. Sometimes a single planting does both: Wall ivy spreads to become a surrounding ground cover, or vice versa. Climbs almost any vertical surface by aerial rootletsa factor to consider in planting against surfaces that must be painted. A chain-link fence planted with ivy soon becomes a wall of foliage. As a ground cover, it holds the soil, discouraging erosion and slippage on slopes. Roots grow deep and fill soil densely; branches root as they grow, further knitting soil.Thick, leathery leaves are usually lobed. Mature plants will eventually develop stiff branches that bear round clusters of small greenish flowers followed by black berries. These branches have unlobed leaves; cuttings taken from them will also have unlobed leaves and will produce shrubby rather than vining plants. Such shrubs taken from variegated Algerian ivy (Hedera algeriensis 'Gloire de Marengo') are known by the name ghost ivy. Plain green Hedera helix 'Arborescens' is another selection of this shrubby type.Plant ivy in spring or fall. Standard spacing is 1122 feet apart. Amend soil (to depth of 812 inches if possible) with organic matter such as ground bark or peat moss. Before planting, thoroughly moisten soil; also make sure transplants' roots are moist.Most ivy ground covers should be trimmed around edges two or three times a year (use hedge shears or a sharp spade). Fence and wall plantings likewise need shearing or trimming two or three times a year. When ground cover builds up higher than you want, mow it with a rugged rotary power mower or cut it back with hedge shears. Do this in spring so ensuing growth will quickly cover bald look.Many trees and shrubs can grow compatibly in ivy ground cover, but small, soft, or fragile plants will be smothered. Ivy ground covers can be a haven for slugs and snails and can also harbor rodents, especially if the ivy is never cut back.English ivies have many uses besides their usual role as ground covers. They are excellent in pots and hanging baskets, trained into intricate patterns on walls, or grown on wire frames to create topiaries. Arborescent forms make superb additions to foundation plantings and shade gardens. Some arborescent ivies are short and mounding, others more upright. All are drought tolerant and carefreegood substitutes for euonymus and cherry laurel (Prunus laurocerasus). Resistant to damage by deer. Recommended selections include the following.