People plant junipers for two main reasons. First, they're toughthey tolerate drought and almost any soil, and they're hard to kill. Second, they come in many formsground covers, shrubs, columns, or treesand their needlelike foliage may be green, gold, gray, or various shades of blue. That's the good.On the down side, junipers seem to be the number one choice for landscaping hotels, office buildings, shopping malls, gas stations, and highway medians. Using lots of them can give your yard a distinctly commercial look. But if you don't mind your home resembling a galleria, feel free.Ground covers. This group includes low, spreading plants from a few inches to a few feet high. It takes a planting several years to fill in completely, so for the first few years, mulch between plants to keep down weeds. You'll see how important this is if you ever have to reach into prickly juniper foliage to pull weeds.Shrub types. These plants usually grow wider than tall and range from about 2 feet to more than 10 feet tall. Shapes include mounding, gracefully spreading, weeping, and weirdly twisted.Columnar types. These upright growers have dense, pyramidal to conical shapes and are often used as vertical accents. (Planting them on the corners of your house, though, can make it look like King Arthur's castle.) They grow from about 625 feet tall.Tree types. These picturesque plants love chalky soil. Spread by birds, they dot the Southern countryside. Single trees become stately. Groups make handsome windbreaks and allees and are classic plants for lining a long driveway.In many cases, junipers are best known by their selections. Pure species are seldom seen.Junipers take about any kind of soil as long as it is well drained. Wet soil causes root rot and death. Full sun is the rule. Very little trimming is needed if you choose a plant of the right size and shape to fill the allotted space. Deer seldom browse junipers, but the plants are subject to various pests and diseases. Among the most common are bagworms (foliage is stripped), spider mites (yellowing or browning needles with fine webbing present), cedar-apple rust (orange, jellylike galls in foliage), and tip blight (branch tips turn brown in spring).