If there is one shrub Northerners wish they could bring with them to the South, this is it. No plant is more cherished than lilac for big, flamboyant, fragrant flowers. Most popular are the common lilac (Syringa vulgaris) and its scads of selections, but many other species and hybrids merit attention. Most are medium-size to large shrubs with no particular appeal when out of bloom. Leaves are typically oval and pointed or rounded, with smooth edges. Floral show (always after leaf-out) comes from numerous small flowers packed into dense clusters shaped like pyramids or cones. Depending on where you live, flowering may occur anywhere from earliest spring to early summerthat is, if flowering occurs. Like the Green Bay Packers, most lilacs are used to long, cold winters, and without that chill they are likely to perform poorly. This disappoints folks who are looking for the same spectacle in Atlanta that they enjoyed in Bangor. Some types, however, such as Syringa x laciniata and others described here, bloom well with only light winter chill and put on a good show even in the Lower South. Most lilacs won't bloom in the Coastal Southand certainly not in the Tropical South.A group of complex hybrids developed by the U.S. National Arboretum include uniform, heavy-blooming, disease-tolerant plants, some of which thrive in the Middle South (USDA 7). Look for 'Betsy Ross', to 10 feet tall, 13 feet wide, with large white flowers; 'Declaration', to 8 feet tall and wide, with reddish purple flowers; and 'Old Glory', to 12 feet tall and wide, with bluish-purple flowers.Several popular hybrids resulted from crosses involving Syringa m. 'Paliban'. 'Jose' (US, MS; USDA 6-7) grows 6 feet tall, 5 feet wide, with small, fragrant, lavender-pink blooms produced in spring and then occasionally throughout the growing season, often with a second flush of bloom in fall. 'Bloomerang' (US, MS, LS, CS; USDA 6-9) is another reblooming lilac; it grows just 34 feet high and wide, with a profusion of light purple or reddish purple flowers in spring and late summer or fall. 'Tinkerbelle' (US, MS; USDA 6-7), a dense, upright grower to 56 feet tall and wide, has fine-textured foliage and spicy-scented pink flowers; makes a nice specimen shrub or informal hedge.Selections, often called French hybrids, number in the hundreds. They generally flower a little later than the species and have larger clusters of single or double flowers in a wide range of colors. Singles are often as showy as doubles, sometimes more so. All of these lilacs require 2 to 5 years to settle down and produce flowers of full size and true color. Here are just a few of the many choice selections: 'Andenken an Ludwig Spth' (reddish purple to dark purple), 'Charles Joly' (double dark purplish red), 'Katherine Havemeyer' (lavender-pink), 'Madame Lemoine' (double white), 'Miss Ellen Willmott' (double white), 'President Grevy' (double medium blue), 'President Lincoln' (Wedgwood blue), 'President Poincar' (double two-tone purple), 'Sensation' (deep purple to wine-red with white picotee edge), and 'William Robinson' (double lilac-pink).Other hybrids include 'Krasavitsa Moskvy' ('Beauty of Moscow'), with large clusters of pink buds opening into white double flowers; 'Nadezhda' ('Hope'), with deep purple buds opening into lilac-blue double flowers; and 'Primrose', with pale yellow blooms.Descanso hybrids, developed to accept mild winters, perform well in the Lower and Coastal South. Best known is 'Lavender Lady'; others include 'Blue Boy', 'Blue Skies', 'Chiffon' (lavender), 'Forrest K. Smith' (light lavender), 'Sylvan Beauty' (rose-lavender), and 'White Angel' ('Angel White').Provide well-drained, neutral to slightly alkaline soil. If your soil is strongly acid, dig in lime before planting. These plants typically bloom on wood formed the previous year, so prune just after flowers fade. (Until plants are established, just pinch back any overlong stems.) Remove spent blossom clusters, cutting back to a pair of leaves; growth buds at that point will make flowering stems for next year. Renovate old, overgrown plants by cutting a few of the oldest stems to the ground each year. For the few types that bloom on new growth, prune in late winter, before new growth starts. Major insect and disease problems include borers, scale, and powdery mildew.blossom clusters, cutting back to a pair of leaves; growth buds at that point will make flowering stems for next year. Renovate old, overgrown plants by cutting a few of the oldest stems to the ground each year. For the few types that bloom on new growth, prune in late winter, before new growth starts. Major insect and disease problems include borers, scale, and powdery mildew.