Tropical Asian native known botanically as Mangifera indica. Now cultivated in warm-weather regions around the globe. One of the easiest fruit trees to growbut since it won't take frost, its cultivation in the South is limited to south Florida and South Texas. Trees range in size from 50 feet giants with a 30 feet spread to 6- to 10 feet specimens better suited to the average backyard. Hand- some, large (8- to 16 inches-long) leaves are often coppery red or purple when new, later turning dark green. Tree size is heavily dependent on selection and pruning. Almost all trees will get over 40 feet without pruning, but some can be kept at 812 feet with selective annual pruning. Larger selections can be kept at 1520 feet with pruning.Mangoes are usually self-fruitful. Long clusters of yellow to reddish flowers appear at branch ends from spring into summer; these are followed by fleshy fruit that typically weighs from 34 to 1 pound, though it can tip the scales at as much as 4 pounds. Most mangoes are more flavorful if allowed to ripen on the tree; they're usually ready to harvest 4 to 5 months after bloom. The trees can be incredibly productivea 6 feet tree can bear up to 60 pounds of fruit per year. Mangoes can be grown in containers, but it is much more difficult than if the trees are planted in the ground. Trees bloom best when they go through a dry season and are exposed to cooler temperatures. South Florida's winter is ideal because it is typically dry with moderate cold. Trees bloom about 30 days after being exposed to temperatures in the 40s.Mangoes typically have green to reddish or yellowish skin, a large seed, and very juicy pale yellow to deep orange flesh that tastes somewhat like a peach with flowery or perfumy overtonesbut there's incredible diversity in size, shape, color, and flavor. Most groceries stock 'Tommy Atkins', a selection that is to mangoes what 'Red Delicious' is to apples; it looks pretty and ships well, but taste and texture are not exceptional. Choices offering better flavor and texture include the following.Mangoes will grow in most well-drained soils. Water only to get them established; after that, they'll get by on rainfall. (However, trees grown in containers will need regular watering.) Spread 14 pound of 8-3-9 fertilizer per inch of trunk diameter evenly at the drip line twice a year and water it in well. Be careful not to apply too much nitrogen, as this will force vegetative growth rather than bloom. Foliar sprays of minor elements are recommended. Spraying for pests is seldom necessary, though scale, anthrac-nose, and powdery mildew cause occasional problems; for controls, consult your Cooperative Extension Service.