As a group, only oaks rival maples for usefulness in the gardenand there's hardly a place in the South where some kind of maple won't grow. The major limiting factors are extended summer heat or drought and lack of winter cold. Maples come in many shapes and sizes; among them, you'll find large and midsize shade trees, small specimen trees, and dwarf, weeping kinds the size of a shrub. What really sets these trees apart, though, is their spectacular autumn foliage in warm shades of red, orange, and yellow. Color can be quite variable, especially among seedling trees, so shop while the trees are showing their fall color.Most maples do better when the soil stays moist, though just about all prefer well-drained soil. (Acer rubrum is an exception, doing fine in boggy soil.) Large maples can be difficult to garden beneath; in addition to casting dense shade, they grow shallow roots that compete with other plants for water and nutrients. The roots can also crack and lift pavement and invade water and sewer lines.Medium to large maples need little pruning. For smaller types, prune to accentuate the natural form. Avoid pruning in late winter or early spring, as cuts will bleed sap. Prune in summer or early winter instead.From simple seedling trees with bold green or red palmate leaves to delicate lacy-leaved selections, these maples have uncommon grace and character. While seedling trees are handsome, they often lack the predictably superior traits of varieties. In recent years, hundreds of grafted forms have become available, meaning new and once-rare selections are now readily available. Here are some of the best ones for the South. Many smaller ones do well in larger pots.You pay a penalty for the advantage of fast growth: Weak wood and narrow crotch angles make this tree break easily. Unusually susceptible to aphids and cottony scale. Suffers from chlorosis in alkaline soils. Many rate it the least desirable of maples, but nonetheless it is often planted for fast growth.Commonly available selections include: