Any search for sturdy, long-lived, trouble-free shade and street trees should start with the oaks. Of the more than 600 species worldwide, many are native to the South. They thrive in such a wide range of habitats, it's hard to find a place where one or more species won't grow. Some are evergreen. Deciduous species often display terrific fall color. Massive trunks and limbs, handsome bark, and picturesque winter silhouettes are the norm.Acorns, however, are their most distinguishing feature. These nuts held by cuplike caps provide vital sustenance for a host of wildlife, including deer, wild turkeys, wood ducks, quail, squirrels, and rabbits. Those produced by species in the white oak group (Quercus alba, Quercus bicolor, Quercus macrocarpa, Quercus montana, and others) mature in one year and can be eaten by humans. Those in the red and black oak group (Quercus coccinea, Quercus palustris, Quercus rubra, Quercus velutina, and others) mature in two years and are too bitter with tannin to be palatable. Leaves of the first group have rounded lobes; leaves of the latter have pointed lobes.BEST OAKS FOR THE SOUTHHere are our choices for the best oaks to plant or conserve in Southern gardens.Other mildew-resistant selections include 'Crimson Spire', a columnar form to 45 feet tall and only 15 feet wide, with red fall color; 'Rose Hill', with particularly attractive glossy foliage; and 'Skyrocket', an excellent performer with the same form as 'Crimson Spire' but with yellow-brown fall foliage. 'Concordia' grows about 25 feet tall and wide, with golden foliage. 'Kindred Spirit', a hybrid between columnar English oak and Quercus bicolor, grows 35 feet tall, 6 feet wide, with good disease resistance and tolerance to wet soil and drought.Nothing is more important to success in growing oaks than choosing a species well adapted to your local soil and climate. For example, some oaks tolerate the salt air along the coast; most don't. A common mistake is planting acid-loving oaks, such as pin oak (Quercus palustris) and red oak (Quercus rubra) in alkaline soil. Trees quickly develop chlorosis (yellow leaves with green veins) and eventually die. Good oaks for alkaline soil include Texas red oak (Quercus buckleyi), Texas live oak (Quercus fusiformis), Chinkapin oak (Quercus muhlenbergii), Monterrey oak, (Quercus polymorpha), Nuttall oak (Quercus texana), Shumard red oak (Quercus shumardii), and post oak (Quercus stellata). Those that tolerate wet or poorly drained sites include Quercus hemisphaerica, Quercus laurifolia, Quercus lyrata, Quercus falcata pagodifolia, and Quercus michauxii.Plant oaks where you expect them to stay. Large, established oaks are very sensitive to disturbance or compaction of the soil. Don't park vehicles under the canopies of oaks. Don't pave beneath them. Don't pile or spread soil there. Don't cut roots.Many insects and diseases attack oaks, but damage is seldom serious. Infestations of the large red-and-blue spotted gypsy moth caterpillars in the Upper South can defoliate entire trees. Wrapping trunks with single bands of duct tape smeared with a gummy paste called Tanglefoot provides control. The most serious disease, a fungus called oak wilt, has killed many trees in Texas. Spread by beetles attracted to wounds in the bark, it causes trees to defoliate and die. Methods of prevention include limiting any pruning to before February 1 or after June 30 and quickly painting fresh wounds with wound dressing or latex paint.