Mint relatives with tight clusters of small flowers. Each blossom has a collar of bractslarge, colorful, and quite decorative in some speciesthat can overlap to give the look of a small pinecone. These can be cut and dried as the first flowers open for use in arrangements and wreaths. Blossoms are especially attractive to bees and butterflies. Most oreganos have pleasantly aromatic foliage. Though several kinds are valued for cooking, others are chiefly ornamentals, used as ground covers or to cascade over rocks, retaining walls, and the edges of hanging baskets. Some are hardy and evergreen; others are tender and killed by frost. None is seriously damaged by browsing deer.Flavor of the plain oregano (Origanum vulgare) is variable; choose a selected form with an aroma and flavor you like. Biblical hyssop (Origanum syriacum) and Greek oregano (Origanum v. hirtum) are pungent and spicy-hot.Most wild forms have scentless leaves and are useless for cooking; be sure to choose a selected form with a good aroma and a flavor that you like. For best flavor, keep this plant trimmed to prevent floweringbut let some clumps bloom for bees and butterflies to enjoy.Oreganos aren't fussy about soil as long as it is well drained. They'll tolerate light shade, but most do better in full sun (culinary types need full sun to develop best flavor). In milder areas, many species become woody and less productive with age; to restore vigor, cut the previous year's stems to the ground in winter or early spring. You can start plants from seed, but because oreganos cross-pollinate freely, you may not get the plant you want. It's a better bet to purchase potted plants whose identities are certain.To keep plants producing, cut sprigs often. For a large harvest for drying, wait until just before plants bloom and cut the stems above the lowest set of leaves; new foliage will sprout, and you can cut again in late summer. Don't harvest within a month before the first expected frost, however, as the plants need time to re-establish themselves before cold weather. Strip leaves from stems after they dry.