True royalty among garden plants, peonies feature blossoms that can take your breath away. Most types flourish in areas with long, cold winters, leading folks to the mistaken conclusion that they're not suitable for the South. But while it's true that peonies do generally perform best in the Upper and Middle South, quite a few tolerate the mild winters and hot summers of the Lower South, blooming as far south as Jackson, Mississippi; Montgomery, Alabama; and Columbus, Georgia.The two basic types are herbaceous peonies, which die to the ground in late fall, and tree peonies (really shrubs), which form woody trunks. Both are from Chinese species: herbaceous peonies are chiefly from Paeonia lactiflora, tree types from Paeonia suffruticosa. Most garden peonies are hybrids.Peonies dominate many a flower border in late springthey're great companions for iris, old roses,  (Papaver), dianthus, and early daylilies (Hemerocallis). Remember that they grow to a good size over time and may get too big for a small border. When the site is properly prepared and plants are carefully selected and given proper care, all are extremely long lived, bringing beauty to your garden for as long as you live.Plants grow 34 feet tall and wide. Large, deep green, attractively divided leaves are an effective background for the spectacular spring or early summer flowers and look good throughout the summer. Depending on the selection, blossoms can be anywhere from 2 inches to 10 inches across; colors range from pure white through cream and rose to red. Many have a perfume reminiscent of old-fashioned roses.In the South, early-blooming peonies tend to outperform those that flower latebut all the selections listed below are proven performers in our region. If you have room for only one peony, choose 'Festiva Maxima' (double white flowers with red flecks), a Southern heirloom plant that blooms dependably throughout our region. Other recommended selections include the following.Three species are also recommended for the South. Paeonia tenuifolia, called fernleaf peony, hails from southeastern Europe. It reaches 112212 feet high and wide and has dark green, exceedingly finely cut leaves. Deep red, single flowers on short stems seem to be sitting on the foliage. From Asia come Paeonia obovata and Paeonia japonica, both only 1122 feet high and wide. Paeonia obovata has deep green foliage that is pale gray-green and slightly hairy beneath. It produces cup-shaped, single white to purplish red blossoms with yellow stamens; the seed heads that follow split open to reveal red receptacles holding metallic blue seeds. Paeonia japonica is similar but with hairier leaf undersides and yellow-centered white flowers that appear a little earlier than those of Paeonia obovata.Catalogs offer named selections of Japanese origin in white and shades of pink, red, and purple; blossoms are generally semidouble. More recent and more expensive are orange, yellow, and copper-colored hybrids resulting from crosses of Paeonia suffruticosa with Paeonia delavayi and Paeonia lutea; these bear semidouble blooms that face outward and upward.Tree peonies require less winter chill than herbaceous peonies. The large flowers are fragile and should be sheltered from strong winds. Prune only to remove faded flowers and any dead wood.