Perhaps no flowers have seen such dramatic improvement in their suitability to Southern gardens in recent decades as petunias. They've long been mainstays in borders and containers because of their profuse blooming and incredible range of colors. But they just didn't stick around long enough to suit us. Our hot, humid climate meant their flowers often melted and entire plants died by midsummer.Petunias used to be divided into two groupsGrandiflora (large flowers on a bouquet-shaped plant) and Floribunda (medium-size flowers on a compact, mounding plant). Neither group liked our weather and pretty much became superfluous. While you can still get improved, large-flowered specialty petunias in a wild assortment of colors and patterns (as well as generic petunias sold by color in big box stores), by and large gardeners have turned to a new category of hybrids that we like to call Landscape petunias.Landscape petunias have slightly smaller flowers than their predecessors, but lots more of them for a much longer time. Whether mounding or trailing, they're dense and full. Their biggest advantage is that they tolerate our Southern climate. In most places in the South, they'll bloom continuously from spring until fall and don't need deadheading. Plant them in masses or grow them in containers.Four of our favorite groups of Landscape petunias are described below. Two are grown from seed and two from cuttings. Cutting-grown plants are said to be more uniform and reliable. However, since seed mixes are refined and improved each year, average consumers likely won't notice any difference.Petunias thrive in sun and rich, well-drained soil. Space them 818 inches apart, depending on plant size. Feed large-flowered kinds monthly during the growing season with a bloom booster liquid fertilizer. Hungry landscape petuniasreferred to by growers as the teenage boys of the plant worlddo best when given controlled-release fertilizer at planting time in addition to weekly applications of liquid fertilizer. Cut back leggy plants to force new growth and blooms.In Florida, grow petunias as winter annuals. Plant them in fall, enjoy their flowers through the cool months into spring, and then replace them with summer flowers that take the Florida heat.Just a few pests bother petunias, including slugs, snails, and tobacco budworms. Botrytis gray mold can mar the blossoms and foliage during cool, wet weather.