It's hard to escape pines if you live in the South. And few of us would want to. The native longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) is just as iconic to the region as is the live oak (Quercus virginiana). As a group, these conifers are much better adapted to our soils and climate than firs (Abies) and spruces (Picea). They tolerate heat, humidity, drought, clay, and sand. Many become tall, graceful shade trees, providing filtered light to gardens below and whisper as the wind blows through the needles. Others featuring weeping, creeping, or dwarf forms make excellent garden accents.Differences in cone size and shape offer one way to tell these trees apart; another identifying characteristic is the number of needles in a bundle (pines bear their needles in clusters, or bundles, on the branches). Most species carry their long, slender needles in groups of two, three, or five. Those with two needles tend to tolerate unfavorable soil and climate better than three-needle species, and three-needle pines more so than five-needle ones.Young trees tend to be pyramidal, while older ones are more open or round topped. Seeds of all pines attract birds; some species produce the pine nuts enjoyed by people and sold commercially.Look for named selections to ensure uniformity in size and shape. All look best if left to grow naturally; choose plants with a pleasingly rounded form rather than trying to shape them later through pruning.Plants in the Nana group are broad shrubs, growing slowly to 37 feet tall, 612 feet wide. Useful in rock gardens or containers, though plants sold under this name have been known to grow into small trees.Plants in the Aurea group take on bright golden tones in winter. 'French Blue' keeps its blue color throughout the cold months. Handsome and dense 'Fastigiata' grows slowly to 2030 feet tall and just 46 feet wide. 'Inverleith', to 4060 feet tall and 2025 feet wide, sports needles tipped in creamy white. Dwarf forms include rounded 'Beuvronensis', blue-green 'Glauca Nana', and relatively fast-growing 'Watereri'. 'Hillside Creeper' is well named; it grows to 2 feet high and 8 feet wide in 10 years and makes an interesting ground cover.