The most popular of all plants for shade, hostas are prized for their marvelous foliage. The thin spikes of lavender or white, trumpet-shaped flowers that appear for several weeks in summer are a bonus, and they are a favorite among hummingbirds. There's a tremendous variety in leaf size, shape, and color; to fully appreciate the diversity, you'll need to consult a specialist's catalog or visit a well-stocked garden center. All hostas are native to eastern Asia.Leaves may be heart shaped, lance shaped, oval, or nearly round, carried at the ends of leafstalks that rise from the ground and radiate from a central point. Leaves overlap to form symmetrical, almost shingled foliage mounds ranging in size from dwarf (as small as 34 inches.) to giant (as big as 5 feet.). Leaf texture may be smooth, deeply veined, quilted, or puckery; surface may be glossy or dull; edges may be smooth or wavy. Colors range from light to dark green to chartreuse, bright gold, gray, and blue. There are also combinations of colors, including variegations with white, cream, or yellow.All hostas go dormant in winter, collapsing to almost nothing. All are splendid companions for ferns and for plants with fernlike foliage, such as bleeding heart (Dicentra and Lamprocapnos). They're also good in containers. In the ground, hostas last for years; clumps expand in size and shade out weeds. They are generally shade lovers, though some will tolerate dappled or morning sun if well watered. Plants grown in more sun will be more compact and produce more flowers. Unfortunately, hostas are a favorite dessert for deer and voles.New selections are legion. To be sure you're getting the one you want, buy the plant in full leaf or deal with a reputable mail-order firm. Species and selections listed below are just a few of the many available.Provide good, organically enriched soil with regular feeding during the growing season. A blanket of mulch or low-growing ground cover around plants will prevent mud from splattering leaves. Slugs and snails can ravage hosta foliage; where these pests are a problem, protect plants or choose slug-resistant selections (those with heavily textured or waxy leaves are your best bets). Deer also enjoy hosta.