Rhododendrons and  are among the South's favorite shrubs. Many people think of them as entirely different plants, but they both belong to the genus Rhododendron, which comprises more than 800 species and 10,000 named selections. Even to the untrained eye, one difference between the two groups is obvious: Rhododendrons generally have much larger leaves. From a technical standpoint, rhododendron flowers are bell shaped and have ten or more stamens, while  blooms are typically funnel shaped and have five stamens.By making their choices carefully, gardeners in almost every part of the South can enjoy some of these plants, even if that means growing them in containers. Rhododendrons generally do better in the Upper and Middle South (USDA 6-7), though a number of selections thrive in the Lower South (USDA 8). These include 'A. Bedford', 'Album Elegans', 'Anah Kruschke', 'Belle Heller', 'Caroline', 'Cheer', 'Chionoides', 'Cynthia', 'Fastuosum Flore Pleno', 'Ginny Gee', 'Holden', 'Jean Marie de Montague', 'Lee's Dark Purple', 'Nova Zembla', 'PJM', 'Purple Splendour', 'Scintillation', 'Trude Webster', 'Vulcan', 'Yaku Prince'.In addition, the following extend the range of rhododendrons into the Coastal South (USDA 9): 'Anna Rose Whitney', 'English Roseum', 'Janet Blair', 'Roseum Elegans', and the Southgate series (see by color below).RHODODENDRON HYBRIDS AND SPECIESDozens of recommended rhododendrons are organized by color and described in the lists that follow. Hybrids are listed first, then species. Many are available at garden centers; you'll have to order others by mail. All are evergreen unless otherwise noted. While much attention is on hybrids, rhododendron species have plenty to offer, especially in woodland gardens and naturalized areas. Four of the species listed are native to the Southeast.In the listing below, the typical height for each is given; most grow at least as wide as tall. Bloom times given are approximate and vary with weather and location. In the descriptions, very early corresponds to late winter, early to early spring, midseason to midspring, late to late spring, and very late to early summer.WHITEPINKYELLOWREDLAVENDER TO PURPLE AND BLUEKINDS OF AZALEASAzaleas are divided into evergreen and deciduous categories. The following describes evergreen hybrids first, then deciduous hybrids and species.EVERGREEN AZALEA HYBRIDSEvergreen azaleas fall into more than a dozen groups, though an increasing number of hybrids have such mixed parentage that they don't fit conveniently into any category. The following list includes some of the most popular groups. Except as noted, bloom season is late winter or spring. Plants grown in greenhouses can be forced for winter bloom. Size varies considerably, but most of these slow-growing plants reach 25 feet high and at least as wide.DECIDUOUS AZALEA HYBRIDS AND SPECIESFew shrubs can equal deciduous azaleas for showiness and range of color, and this has fueled the development of many excellent hybrids over the years. They offer the yellow, gold, peach, orange, and flaming red colors that are missing or rare among evergreen azaleasand fall foliage is often brilliant orange-red to maroon. Flowers of some are highly fragrant. Deciduous species (typically with blossoms 11 inches across) are listed after the hybrids below. Many of these species are native to the South and are less fussy about soil and watering than evergreen types; they need a good amount of sun, however, and won't bloom well in full shade.