Rosmarinus means dew of the sea, reflecting the plant's native habitat on seaside cliffs in the Mediterranean region. Tough and versatile, rosemary grows most luxuriantly just above the tide line, braving wind and salt spraybut it will thrive inland, even enduring blistering sun and poor alkaline soil, if given moderate water and infrequent light feeding.The many forms of rosemary vary in habit from stiff, erect types through rounded shrubs and squat, dense tufts to rock-hugging creepers. Height ranges from as low as 1 feet to as tall as 6 feet or more. Plants are thickly clothed in narrow, typically 1- to 1 inches-long, resinous, aromatic leaves that are usually glossy dark green above, grayish white beneath. Small clusters of - to  inches blossoms in various shades of blue (rarely pink or white) bloom through winter and spring; bloom occasionally repeats in fall. Leaves are widely used as a seasoning. Flowers also are edible; add them to salads or use as a garnish. Blossoms attract birds, butterflies, and bees and are the source of excellent honey. Deer leave rosemary alone.Use taller types of rosemary as clipped or informal hedges or in dry borders with native and gray-leafed plants. Lower kinds are good ground or bank covers, useful in erosion control. Set container-grown plants or rooted cuttings 2 feet apart for moderately quick cover. Foliage of most types has culinary uses, but flavor and fragrance vary; the best have a mildly pungent flavor and a complex aroma with sweet as well as resinous notes. Rosemary is also an ingredient in medicines, cosmetics, potpourri, and moth repellents.Rosemary plants sold without names are frequently seedlings, which lack the uniformity of cutting-grown, named selections. Unfortunately, selection names are often confused, and many have synonyms; but named plants are still a better bet than nameless ones.Good drainage is essential; lighten heavy soils with plenty of organic matter. Heavy feeding and too much water result in rank growth, subsequent woodiness. Control growth by frequent tip-pinching when plants are small. Prune older plants frequently but lightly; cut to side branch or shear. If plants become woody and bare in center, cut back selected branches by half so plant will fill in with new growth (be sure to cut into leafy wood; plants will not regrow from bare wood). Or discard plant and start over with a new one. Branches root wherever they touch the ground; creeping types will spread indefinitely, forming extensive colonies. To get new plants, root tip cuttings or dig and replant layered branches.Cold hardiness varies considerably, depending on selection. In general, upright types are hardier, while prostrate ones (native to Majorca and Corsica) are more tender, suffering damage at 20F or even higher. In the Upper and Middle South, choose the hardiest types and shelter them from winter winds. Note that even the hardiest types can succumb to cold if they have wet feet. Beyond hardiness range, grow rosemary in pots and winter indoors on a sunny windowsill; or treat as an annual.