The South's love affair with roses continues to evolve. We prize them for their intoxicating fragrance and the myriad shapes, sizes, and colors of their blossoms. But the ways we use them in our gardens have changed. Gone are the days of lining out scores of roses with name tags at the foot of each one like grave markers in a cemetery. What people want now are roses that solve problems, perform functions, combine well with other plants, and don't demand round-the-clock attention.Fortunately, the sheer variety of roses allows for many possibilities. Climbing roses can frame a doorway, drape an arbor or pergola, and embellish a fence or wall. Compact roses like floribundas do great in containers. Reblooming shrub and ground cover roses catch the eye on banks or in sweeps. Old garden roses lend grace, perfume, and color to cottage-style gardens and mixed borders. Hybrid tea and grandiflora roses are tops for formal cutting gardens edged with clipped evergreen shrubs.Most roses grow very well throughout the South, but where you live does affect their performance. Best flowering is in spring and fall, extending to winter in the Tropical South. If you get a lot of rain, roses have more disease problems like black spot and mildew. Low-rainfall areas see less disease, but you'll have to water regularly during the growing season. Hot summer weather can cause roses to go dormant and quit flowering. In areas with cool, wet springs, roses with lots of petals tend to ball, opening poorly or not at all. Some roses aren't winter hardy in the Upper South (USDA 6).Mail-order catalogs and/or websites offer the widest choice of roses. They're practically the only way to shop when looking for lesser-known kinds. You'll also find roses for sale in local nurseries and garden centers, home centers, and even supermarkets.Potted roses are available at retail stores from spring through fall and year-round in the Coastal and Tropical South (USDA 9-11). Their big advantage is that you can plant them anytime during the growing season. The best time to plant, however, is from mid to late spring, when the plants are blooming, the largest selection is available, and you can set them out before the summer heat arrives.Choose plants with healthy new growth. A large container is better than a small one, because it's less likely to have had its roots cut back to fit it in the pot when it was planted. Avoid plants with roots protruding through the bottom of the pot, as pot-bound plants may not grow well in your garden. Don't buy plants left over from last year, unless you get a sizeable discount.During late winter and early spring, nurseries and stores may offer bare-root roses. These are dormant plants with no soil around the roots. Instead, the roots are usually packed in moist organic matter and wrapped in plastic or other material. This is what you'll receive from mail-order nurseries. It doesn't harm the plants to be dug, transported, and sold this way. In fact, bare-root roses adapt to native soil more quickly and are usually less expensive.Bare-root plants are graded 1, 112, or 2, number 1 being the best. Suppliers usually offer only grade 1 plants, which have thick, green canes and a big cluster of sturdy, fibrous roots. Don't buy plants with dried-out, shriveled canes or roots or roses beginning to leaf out.Buy bare-root roses as soon as they appear for sale, rather than when they are marked down as bargains. Beware of packaged bare-root roses displayed indoors on store shelves. The indoor warmth may cause the roots to dry out. If they dry, they die.Many old roses, species roses and their hybrids, and virtually all miniature and shrub roses are propagated from cuttings and grown on their own roots. However, about 50 percent of modern roses begin as a bud grafted onto an understock of a completely different type of rose whose root system thrives in a wide range of soils and climates. In Florida, for example, modern roses should be budded onto nematode-resistant rootstocks of Rosa x fortuniana.Both budded and own-root roses grow well and produce fine flowers. Budded plants are often huskier at the time of purchase, but both kinds will be the same size within a year or two. Still, the current trend is to grow new selections on their own roots whenever possible. Own-root roses have one big advantage: If the plant is killed to the ground by cold (or mowed down by a texting teenager), it will regrow from the roots and be the same rose. Regrowth from the roots of a budded plant, in contrast, will come from the understock rose, whose flowers won't look anything like those of the rose you bought. So if you don't like the knobby center that often forms with grafted roses, or if you are tired of pruning off rootstock suckers, try own-root roses.Most of the thousands of roses for sale are modern rosesones introduced after 1867, the year the first hybrid tea rose was developed. For more than 100 years after that, breeders raced to produce the most perfect hybrid teas, grandifloras, and floribundas, the flowering modern rose bushes that form the core of many public and residential rose gardens. However, in the past few years, landscape roses, particularly the lax and leafy shrub roses, have become almost as popular.The list at right includes a host of excellent modern roses grouped by type and color. Refer to the information below to learn about the ancestry and growing characteristics of the different types of modern roses.These are the classic, aristocratic roses, with long, stylish, pointed buds that spiral open to large blossoms with high centers. Typically, hybrid teas carry one blossom at the end of each flowering stem. They bloom profusely in spring, then continue to produce blossoms either in flushes or continuouslyuntil frosty weather. Their strong, long stems make them ideal for cutting and bringing indoors.Hybrid tea bushes tend to have an upright, narrow, almost stiff look. They grow 26 feet tall, depending on selection and climate. Group three or more together to create a generous, bushy look. Consider planting low-growing perennials beneath them or a low hedge in front of them to hide their bare ankles (bases of canes are usually sparsely foliaged). Hybrid teas need good growing conditions and more care than some other types, but for many gardeners, their spectacular blooms are worth the extra effort.These are the workhorses of rose gardens, noted for producing large quantities of flowers from spring through fall. Many have hybrid tea ancestry, evident in the long stems and/or elegant shape of the flowers. Unlike the hybrid teas, however, they produce clusters of blossoms rather than a single flower at the end of each stem; this makes them excellent for providing masses of color.Grandifloras are about the same size as full-size hybrid teas and work well at the back of a flower bed or as barrier plants.Floribundas are smaller than hybrid teasboth in flower size and in height; use them for informal hedges, for low flower borders, or as container plants. 'Iceberg', one of the best-selling roses ever, is a floribunda.Polyanthas produce small blossoms in large sprays; they are compact bushes, generally not much more than 2 feet high. The first polyanthas appeared in the late 19th century. Two of the early polyanthas are now classics. 'Ccile Brnner' (the shrub dates from 1889, while the climbing form goes back to 1894) has light pink flowers of perfect hybrid tea form. 'The Fairy' (from 1932) is a rose covered with masses of 1 inches pink flowers.These are simply rose bushes that produce long, strong canes that will grow upright against a wall or arbor. They do not climb by twining or attachment but must be trained through or tied to their support. There are two types of modern climbing roses: large-flowered climbers and climbing mutations of bush roses, such as 'Cl. Iceberg' and 'Cl. Ccile Brnner'. Large-flowered climbers generally produce the most blooms, but the climbing mutations have the exquisite flowers of their famous parents.Left to their own devices, many climbers make attractive arching shrubs or even ground covers. For more climbers, including some very large ones, see the species roses section beginning on page 559.Planting roses for general landscape use is not a new idea; some fine shrub roses date to the early 20th century. Today, however, rose breeders are developing new roses for use purely as flowering shrubs. The emphasis is on plants that bloom prolifically over a long season and have abundant disease-resistant foliage. Modern shrub roses need little or no pruning to remain shapely. Because they bloom almost continuously, they pair well with perennials in borders.Recognizing public loyalty to brand-name products, some rose breeders have created trade-marked brands to which new selections can be added. Most of these are called shrub roses or landscape roses.The Meidiland roses from Meilland, a French firm, were the first in this category to attract significant interest. The trademarked Meidiland series (including 'Pink Meidiland' and 'White Meidiland') are mostly somewhat billowy shrubs. They also created the Romantica roses described below under New Classic Roses.Flower Carpet is a series of ground cover roses bred by noted German rosarian Werner Noack for easy care and a long season of prolific bloom. Oso Easy is another series of compact landscape roses available in a variety of colors, some with good fragrance.Trademarked brands also include new colors for classic old selections such as 'Burgundy Iceberg' and 'Double Red Simplicity'. Even popular newer selections like 'Home Run' have been expanded into series with shrubs like 'Pink Home Run'.But of all the trademarked roses, none has been as popular as Knock Out roses, developed by Wisconsin rose breeder William Radler. Since the introduction of the original 'Knock Out' in 2000, it has become one of the most popular roses sold. Known for its disease resistance and free-blooming character, this bright red rose is now a common sight in gardens and landscapes across the country. Recently, additional colors and flower forms, including shades of pink and yellow, have been added to the Knock Out series. Unfortunately, the Knock Outs have also proven very susceptible to rose rosette (see page 557), a devastating virus spread by mites, which could limit its usefulness. Many other roses are susceptible too (see challenges on page 556557).Shrub roses vary widely in growth habit and flower color; loose categories are listed below. Some shrub roses make tidy small climbers. The hybrid musks are large (6- to 8 feet) shrubs or small climbers that perform well in dappled or partial shade or in sun. Most are nearly everblooming, with fragrant, clustered flowers in white, yellow, buff, pink shades, and red. Popular selections include buff apricot 'Buff Beauty', coral 'Cornelia', pink 'Felicia', pink 'Kathleen' (with single flowers reminiscent of apple blossoms), salmon 'Penelope', and red 'Will Scarlet'.The David Austin English roses were created by crossing various old roses (albas, centifolias, gallicas) with modern roses in order to combine the forms and fragrances of old roses with the colors and repeat flowering of modern hybrids. The group is extremely varied and includes low shrubs as well as plants that are determined to be climbers regardless of pruning. Popular selections include 'Abraham Darby', an upright to climbing plant with flowers in a blend of pink, yellow, and apricot; 'Charles Austin', a bushy grower with apricot blossoms; 'Fair Bianca', spreading plant with creamy white blooms; 'Gertrude Jekyll', tall, upright grower bearing deep pink flowers; 'Graham Thomas', tall bush with rich yellow blooms; 'Heritage', fragrant and nearly thornless with soft pink flowers; and 'Othello', featuring dusky dark red blooms on a tall bush or climber.Romantica roses, most of which are named for well-known figures in European arts and letters (such as 'Yves Piaget'), are more recent introductions with old rose character.These low-growing plants, around 22 feet high, spread to at least 3 feet wide (some reach 6 feet or wider). Vigor, disease resistance, and a profusion of bloom from late spring until frost are the hallmarks of this category. Ground cover roses are perfect for covering slopes, creating low barriers to foot traffic on level ground, and growing in pots.The most commonly available ground cover roses are those in the Flower Carpet series, available in red, scarlet, pink, apple blossom, coral, yellow, and white. Several of the trademarked Meidiland roses, such as 'White Meidiland', are sufficiently low growing to be used as ground covers. More recently, their Drift series ('Coral Drift', 'Peach Drift', 'Sweet Drift', and so on) continue the practice with 2 feet plants that combine the best traits of ground cover roses and miniature roses.These plants are perfect replicas of modern hybrid teas and floribundas, but plant size is reduced to about 11 feet tall (grown in the ground) with flowers and foliage in the same reduced proportion. Derived in part from Rosa chinensis minima, they come in all the modern hybrid tea colors. Plants are everblooming. Grow them outdoors in containers, window boxes, or as border and bedding plants. To grow them indoors, pot in rich soil in 6 inches (or larger) containers and locate in a cool, bright window. Miniatures are hardier than hybrid teas but may still need winter protection in the Upper South (USDA 6). They also require a good amount of care. The shallow roots demand regular water, regular feeding, and mulching; powdery mildew, black spot, and spider mites are common problems. On the plus side, nearly all are own-root, cutting-grown plants.Old roses belong to the various rose classes that existed prior to 1867 (even though some in these classes were introduced as late as the early 20th century). These roses fall into two categories. The old European roses comprise albas, centifolias, damasks, gallicas, and moss roses the oldest hybrid groups derived from species native to Europe and western Asia. Most flower only in spring; many are hardy throughout the South with little or no winter protection. The second group contains classes derived entirely or in part from east Asian roses: Chinas, Bourbons, damask perpetuals, hybrid perpetuals, Noisettes, and teas. The original China and tea roses were brought to Europe from eastern Asia; 19th-century hybridizers greatly increased their numbers and also developed the other classes from crosses with European roses. Repeat flowering is a characteristic of these classes; hardiness varies, but nearly all need winter protection in cold-winter areas.SPECIES ROSES AND THEIR HYBRIDSSpecies roses are the original wild roses from which all other roses descend. Among the following species and their hybrids are excellent shrub roses, climbing roses, and roses that will help control erosion on slopes. Some are extremely vigorous and cold hardy.Species and selections do best in warm, fairly dry, well-drained soil and in full sun. Prune only to remove dead wood.All rugosas are extremely tough, withstanding hard freezes, wind, drought, and salt spray. They make fine hedges; plants grown on their own roots make sizable colonies and help prevent erosion. Foliage remains free of diseases and insects, except possibly aphids. Among the most widely sold rugosas and rugosa hybrids are 'Blanc Double de Coubert', double white; 'Frau Dagmar Hartopp' ('Fru Dagmar Hastrup'), single pink; 'Hansa', double purplish red; and 'Will Alderman', double pink. Four unusual rugosa hybrids are cherry-red 'F. J. Grootendorst', crimson-red 'Grootendorst Supreme', 'Pink Grooten-dorst', and 'White Grootendorst'; their semidouble to double flowers with deeply fringed petals resemble carnations (Dianthus) more than roses.