Planting sages proves a wise move for many a Southern gardener. Salvia is the largest genus of the mint family, including as many as 900 species from around the world. Some serve as annual bedding plants, others are border perennials, and still others are shrubs, culinary herbs, or ground covers. Where winters are cold, tender perennials and shrubs are grown as annuals. Where plants are marginally hardy, well-drained soil can be key to their winter survival.All sages have square stems and whorls of two-lipped flowers, either neatly spaced along the flower stalks or so tightly crowded that they look like one dense spike; some species have branched inflorescences. Flower colors range from white and yellow through salmon and pink to scarlet, red, lavender, blue, and darkest purple. A few sages have fragrant blossoms; many have aromatic foliage. They attract hummingbirds, bees, and butterflies.If plant lives over, cut back to 46 inches when new spring growth begins, then fertilize. By end of second season, plant will be woody and in decline. Reseeds copiously. Good seed- grown selections include salmon- pink 'Brenthurst' ('Lady in Pink'); 'Coral Nymph', near white with coral lip; and white 'Snow Nymph' ('White Nymph'). 'Lady in Red', with scarlet blooms, is a compact plant (to about 16 inches.), excellent in the foreground of a colorful border. 'Summer Jewel Pink' (soft pink) and 'Summer Jewel Red' (scarlet) are compact, uniform growers to 20 inches tall; early and long bloom season and good resistance to heat, drought, and wind.Many strains and selections are sold for bedding and container use; typically have heavier bloom, better branching, more compact than species. 'Augusta Duelberg' grows into a mound 3 feet high and wide, with a profusion of pure white blooms; 'Henry Duelberg' is similar, but with blue flowers. Cathedral series grows 1218 inches tall, with heavy production of flowers in purple, lavender, deep blue, sky-blue, and white. 'Evolution', 20 inches high and 14 inches wide, has 9 inches lilac flower spikes. 'Rhea', 1416 inches high and 12 inches wide, has deep blue flowers, bluish calyxes; starts blooming earlier in spring. 'Saga Blue' grows just 10 inches high and wide, with blue flowers. Sallyfun series, to 30 inches high, blooms heavily; available in shades of blue through white. 'Strata', to 1218 inches high and wide, has blue flowers and large, woolly, silvery white calyxes. 'Texas Violet', 34 feet high and about half as wide, has deep violet-blue flowers on white calyxes. 'Victoria', with upright growth to 1820 inches high, has violet-blue flowers and calyxes; 'Victoria White' is a white form.A few of the best selections are 'Icing Sugar', a compact grower with lavender-pink flowers; 'Lipstick', with rosy pink, white-throated flowers over a long period; 'Pink Preference', with deep reddish pink flowers; and 'Teresa', with soft pink flowers whose lower lip is white with pink stripes, Sally G. series plants are dense and bushy, with large flowers in bright pink, fuchsia, magenta, red, or white. Selections sold as Salvia greggii with flowers in shades of orange, orange-red, or yellow actually belong with Salvia xjamensis.Excellent selections include 'Cienega de Oro' (creamy yellow flowers), 'Golden Girl' (butter yellow blooms), and 'Sierra de San Antonio' (light peach blooms with pastel yellow lips); all grow 1 2 feet high, 23 feet wide. 'San Isidro Moon' has an open, horizontal habit to 2 feet high, 24 feet wide; it bears two-tone flowers in peach shades. 'California Sunset' grows about 3 feet high and wide; its gorgeous flowers blend shades of coral. Selections often sold as forms of Salvia greggii include soft orange-red 'Coral' and pale yellow 'Moonlight'.Seed-grown strains include Fizz, just 812 inches high, with dense flower spikes in several single colors and white; Firecracker, to 1 feet high and wide, in many single colors and bicolors; Sizzler, about the same size, a heat-tolerant early bloomer with bicolored flowers in a wide color range; Salsa, 1214 inches tall, in purple, scarlet, burgundy, rose, and salmon, including a bicolored white and scarlet; Amore, heat-tolerant, 14 inches-tall plants with flowers in reds and purples; and Picante, 1416 inches tall, blooms early and heavily in colors similar to those of Salsa. 'Van Houttei' is a vigorous old cutting-grown selection to 3 feet tall, 4 feet wide (even larger in mild-winter climates); it bears maroon flowers with an orange-scarlet tinge from early fall through spring where temperatures remain above 28F. Similar to 'Van Houttei' are 'Louie's Orange Delight' (with orange-toned red blooms and bracts) and 'Paul' (with reddish purple flowers and bracts).Give sages good air circulation to deter mildew and other fungal diseases. Most require good drainage, especially in winter; waterlogged plants rarely make it through hard freezes. If soil is heavy, work in plenty of organic matter and apply a thick mulch of well-rotted compost.When it comes to watering, deep is the operative word. Most of the plants discussed here need regular (or in some cases, moderate) water during dry spells. Plants described as drought tolerant require a deep soaking at least once a month during the heat of summer to retain their foliage and prolong their bloom period.Remove spent blossoms to encourage continued bloom. Most sages resent severe pruning except in late winter or early spring, when weather is cool and vigorous new growth is emerging from the plant base. To shape during the growing season, either tip-pinch shoots or cut them back by no more than one-third (keeping most of the leaves on each stem). Give lax varieties inconspicuous support by letting them grow through a cylinder of green-painted wire mesh.In many sages, aromatic compounds in the foliage repel pestsbut this is not true for all species. Some are damaged by slugs and snails; in warmer climates, Mexican giant whiteflies can demolish plants. Aphids may be a problem. Deer may nibble flowers, but they usually don't browse plants heavily. Sages are generally easy to propagate from cuttings or seeds; you can also propagate perennial kinds by dividing the roots or taking cuttings.