These sturdy plants are grown for their familiar, colorful blooms; most are prime subjects for cut flowers. Plants are tough and widely adapted. Perennial kinds spread rapidly and may become invasive. Tall kinds are not for tidy gardens; may need staking. All bloom in summer and fall.Best known among the giant forms are 'Mammoth Russian', 'Russian Giant', and 'Sunzilla'. They grow 10 feet (possibly 15 feet.) tall and 2 feet wide, typically producing a single huge head (sometimes over a foot across) consisting of a circle of short yellow rays with a brown central cushion of seeds. 'Kong' is similarly towering; 'Sunspot' carries 10 inches-wide flower heads on 2 feet-high plants. 'Maya' produces multiple 45 inches blooms of golden yellow and lots of seeds for goldfinches.Sunflowers for cutting come on compact, branching plants and bear 4- to 8 inches-wide blooms in a rich variety of colors. They fall into two basic categories: pollen-bearing types and pollenless ones. Kinds with pollen include 'Del Sol', early-blooming, yellow, 5 feet tall; 'Indian Blanket', red with yellow tips, 45 feet tall; 'Italian White', creamy yellow to near white, 5 feet tall; 'Lemon Eclair', light yellow, 46 feet tall; 'Moonshadow', pale yellow to cream, 4 feet tall; 'Ring of Fire', petals dark red at base and golden yellow at tips, 56 feet tall; and 'Soraya', 56 feet tall, with heavy production of rich orange flowers. 'Teddy Bear', only 112 feet tall, has fully double, 6 inches-wide flowers that look like pompons.Kinds without pollen, classified as Helianthus xhybridus, have the advantage of not shedding on tabletops. Many have a branching growth pattern, producing several flowers on each plant. Look for Large Flowered Mix, yellow, red, and bronze, 610 feet tall; 'Bright Bandolier', yellow-and-mahogany bicolor, 57 feet tall, branching; 'Cinnamon Sun', cinnamon-bronze, 47 feet tall; 'Moulin Rouge', burgundy, 56 feet., branching; 'Peach Passion', peachy yellow, 4 feet tall, branching; Pro Cut series, 4 feet tall, single stem; 'Prado Red', deep garnet, 3124 feet tall, branching; 'Strawberry Blonde', red with yellow tips, 67 feet tall, branching; 'The Joker', burgundy with yellow tips, 56 feet tall, single stalk; 'Valentine', light yellow, 45 feet tall, branching; and 'Velvet Queen', combination of bronze, burgundy, chestnut red, and mahogany, 68 feet tall, branching.