Few flowers are better suited to the cottage garden than beloved, old-fashioned sweet peas. Despite the name, not all are fragrant. But all have the classic pea-family bloomone large, upright, roundish petal (called the banner or standard), two narrow side petals (the wings), and two lower petals that form a boat-shaped structure (the keel).To hasten germination, soak seeds for a few hours before planting. Sow seeds 1 inches deep and 12 inches apart. When seedlings are 45 inches high, thin to at least 6 inches apart. Pinch out tops to encourage strong side branches. Where climate prevents early planting or soil is too wet to work, start three or four seeds in each small peat pot, indoors or in a protected place, and set out when weather has settled. Plant peat pots 1 feet apart, thinning each to one strong plant. This method is ideal for bush types. Protect young seedlings from birds, and control slugs and snails. Never let vines lack for water; soak heavily. To prolong bloom, cut flowers at least every other day and remove all seedpods. Regular monthly feeding with a general-purpose fertilizer will keep vines vigorous and productive.For vining sweet peas, provide trellis, strings, or wire before planting. Seedlings need support as soon as tendrils form. A free- standing trellis running north and south is best. When planting against fence or wall, keep supports away from wall to ensure good air circulation.The following entries describe vine-type sweet peas (heirloom types first, then in groups by time of bloom) and bush types. All do best with rich soil and regular water.The value of early-flowering types is that they will bloom in mid-winter when days are short; try them in the Coastal and Tropical South. (Spring-flowering types will not bloom until days have lengthened to 15 hours or more.) Sow seeds in late October and November for blooms in late winter and spring. If you want to force sweet peas in a greenhouse, use selections from this group. They are not heat resistant. Generally sold in mixtures of several colors.Bijou Mix. To 1 feet Available in single or mixed colors; four or five flowers appear on each 5- to 7 inches stem. Self-supporting plants are spectacular in borders, beds, window boxes, containers. Not as heat resistant or as long stemmed as 'Knee-Hi'; performs better in containers.Cupid Mix. To 46 inches by 1 feet Trails on ground or hangs from containers.Jet Set Mix. Bushy plants grow 23 feet tall; need some support.Knee-Hi Mix. To 2 feet.; need some support. Large, long-stemmed blooms are carried five or six to the stem. Has all the virtues and color range of Cuthbertson's Floribunda, but on bush-type plants. Good for mass display in beds, borders. Growth will exceed 2 feet where planting bed joins a fence or wall; keep in the open for uniform height.Little Sweethearts Mix are rounded bushes to about 8 inches tall; they need no support, bloom over a long season.Snoopea Mix (1215 inches.) and Supersnoop Mix (2 feet.) need no support.