Botanically speaking, violas, pansies, and almost all violets are perennials belonging to the genus Viola. However, violas and pansies are usually treated as annuals, invaluable for fall, winter, and spring bloom in mild-winter areas, for spring-through-early-summer color in colder climates. Typically used for mass color in borders and edgings, as covers for spring-flowering bulbs, and in containers. Violets are more often used as woodland or rock garden plants.Violas and pansies take sun or partial shade, though pansies will bloom longer into spring if given afternoon shade. Violets grow in part or full shade, but most are natives of deciduous forests and bloom best with at least some sun during the flowering season. Violas are tougher than pansies, more tolerant of both heat and cold.Almost all violets have two kinds of flowers: normal, con- spicuous ones that are held above the foliage and may be pollinated and set seed, and short-stemmed, inconspicuous cleistogamous (Greek for closed mouth) flowers that set seed without pollination and produce copious offspring identical to the parent. Many violets also spread by aboveground runners. Some reproduce so freely they can crowd out other small plants.Violas and pansies have such complex ancestries that many botanists are unwilling to assign them to species, preferring to list them by selection name. However, we believe it will avoid confusion if we retain these plants under their former names, invalid though they now may be.Series are almost too numerous to mention; here are just a few. Heat-tolerant Antique Shades boasts a mix of jewel-toned flowers to 3 inches across. Crystal Bowl is a compact grower, with a profusion of small flowers in vivid, clear colors without faces. Heat- and cold-tolerant Majestic Giants II sports large blooms, to 4 inches across, in the full color range, including many bicolors. Strong-growing Matrix freely produces large blooms in a wide color range, with and without faces. The floriferous 'Pandora's Box' has blooms in rose, pink, orange, and yellow. Plants in the heavy-blooming Panola series, also available in the full range of colors and faces, produce medium-size, thick-petaled flowers that resist damage from rain and snow.A group of recently developed trailing pansies grow quickly to 68 inches tall and 2430 inches wide; they work beautifully as ground covers or spilling from hanging baskets and window boxes. Look for the vigorous, long-blooming Cool Wave series in yellow, blue, purple, white, and bicolors. Freefall series features rich, saturated colors. WonderFall series is similar but also offers red and pink flowers.In the Upper South (USDA 6), set out nursery plants of pansies and violas in spring for summer bloom; elsewhere, plant in autumn for winter-to-spring (or longer) bloom. Or start from seed: In the Upper South (USDA 6), sow in mid- to late summer and overwinter seedlings in cold frame until spring; or sow indoors in winter, plant in spring. Elsewhere, sow in mid- to late summer, plant out in fall. To prolong bloom, pick flowers (with some foliage) regularly and remove faded blooms before they set seed. In hot areas, plants get ragged by mid- to late spring and should be removed.